0;.
0;.
0;The following code snippets create an instance foo of class Foo, and invoke its method hello.
0; For each programming language, normal and reflection_based call sequences are shown.
0;.
0;.
0;To give you a example how to use Reflection in a practical way.
0;Its said that most high_level dynamically types languages are reflexive.
0; Reflection on Wikipedia explains but it doesn t really give a very clear picture of what it means.
0; Can anyone explain it in a simpler way by a relevant example .
0;The name reflection is used to describe code which is able to inspect other code in the same system .
0;There are some good reflection examples to get you started at http.
0;  docs.
0;oracle.
0;com javase tutorial reflect index.
0;html.
0;Reflection is important since it lets you write programs that do not have to  know  everything at compile time, making them more dynamic, since they can be tied together at runtime.
0; The code can be written against known interfaces, but the actual classes to be used can be instantiated using reflection from configuration files.
0;What is reflection, and why is it useful .
0;I m particularly interested in Java, but I assume the principles are the same in any language.
0;The name reflection is used to describe code which is able to inspect other code in the same system .
0;For example, say you have an object of an unknown type in Java, and you would like to call a  doSomething  method on it if one exists.
0; Java s static typing system isn t really designed to support this unless the object conforms to a known interface, but using reflection, your code can look at the object and find out if it has a method called  doSomething  and then call it if you want to.
0;So, to give you a code example of this in Java .
0;One very common use case in Java is the usage with annotations.
0; JUnit 4, for example, will use reflection to look through your classes for methods tagged with the  Test annotation, and will then call them when running the unit test.
0;There are some good reflection examples to get you started at http.
0;  docs.
0;oracle.
0;com javase tutorial reflect index.
0;html.
0;And finally, yes, the concepts are pretty much similar in other statically types languages which support reflection .
0; In dynamically typed languages, the use case described above is less necessary , but the second case of looking for methods which are marked or work in a certain way is still common.
0;Reflection is a language s ability to inspect and dynamically call classes, methods, attributes, etc.
0; at runtime.
0;For example, all objects in Java have the method getClass, which lets you determine the object s class even if you don t know it at compile time  e.
0;g.
0; if you declared it as an Object  _ this might seem trivial, but such reflection is not possible in less dynamic languages such as C  .
0; More advanced uses lets you list and call methods, constructors, etc.
0;Reflection is important since it lets you write programs that do not have to  know  everything at compile time, making them more dynamic, since they can be tied together at runtime.
0; The code can be written against known interfaces, but the actual classes to be used can be instantiated using reflection from configuration files.
0;Lots of modern frameworks use reflection extensively for this very reason.
0; Most other modern languages use reflection as well, and in scripting languages they are even more tightly integrated, since it feels more natural within the general programming model of those languages.
0;One of my favorite uses of reflection is the below Java dump method.
0; It takes any object as a parameter and uses the Java reflection API print out every field name and value.
0;Not every language supports reflection but the principles are usually the same in languages that support it.
0;Reflection is the ability to  reflect  on the structure of your program.
0; Or more concrete.
0; To look at the objects and classes you have and programmatically get back information on the methods, fields, and interfaces they implement.
0; You can also look at things like annotations.
0;It s usefull in a lot of situations.
0; Everywhere you want to be able to dynamically plug in classes into your code.
0; Lot s of object relational mappers use reflection to be able to instantiate objects from databases without knowing in advance what objects they re going to use.
0; Plug_in architectures is another place where reflection is usefull.
0; Being able to dynamically load code and determine if there are types there that implement the right interface to use as a plugin is important in those situations.
0;Reflection is a key mechanism to allow an application or framework to work with code that might not have even been written yet .
0;Take for example your typical web.
0;xml file.
0; This will contain a list of servlet elements, which contain nested servlet_class elements.
0; The servlet container will process the web.
0;xml file, and create new a new instance of each servlet class through reflection.
0;Another example would be the Java API for XML Parsing .
0; Where an XML parser provider is  plugged_in  via well_known system properties, which are used to construct new instances through reflection.
0;And finally, the most comprehensive example is Spring which uses reflection to create its beans, and for its heavy use of proxies.
0;Uses of Reflection.
0;Reflection is commonly used by programs which require the ability to examine or modify the runtime behavior of applications running in the Java virtual machine.
0; This is a relatively advanced feature and should be used only by developers who have a strong grasp of the fundamentals of the language.
0; With that caveat in mind, reflection is a powerful technique and can enable applications to perform operations which would otherwise be impossible.
0;Extensibility Features.
0;An application may make use of external, user_defined classes by creating instances of extensibility objects using their fully_qualified names.
0; Class Browsers and Visual Development Environments A class browser needs to be able to enumerate the members of classes.
0; Visual development environments can benefit from making use of type information available in reflection to aid the developer in writing correct code.
0; Debuggers and Test Tools Debuggers need to be able to examine private members on classes.
0; Test harnesses can make use of reflection to systematically call a discoverable set APIs defined on a class, to insure a high level of code coverage in a test suite.
0;Drawbacks of Reflection.
0;Reflection is powerful, but should not be used indiscriminately.
0; If it is possible to perform an operation without using reflection, then it is preferable to avoid using it.
0; The following concerns should be kept in mind when accessing code via reflection.
0; Performance Overhead.
0;Because reflection involves types that are dynamically resolved, certain Java virtual machine optimizations can not be performed.
0; Consequently, reflective operations have slower performance than their non_reflective counterparts, and should be avoided in sections of code which are called frequently in performance_sensitive applications.
0; Security Restrictions.
0;Reflection requires a runtime permission which may not be present when running under a security manager.
0; This is in an important consideration for code which has to run in a restricted security context, such as in an Applet.
0; Exposure of Internals.
0;Since reflection allows code to perform operations that would be illegal in non_reflective code, such as accessing private fields and methods, the use of reflection can result in unexpected side_effects, which may render code dysfunctional and may destroy portability.
0; Reflective code breaks abstractions and therefore may change behavior with upgrades of the platform.
0;source.
0; The Reflection API.
0;Reflection allows instantiation of new objects, invocation of methods, and get set operations on class variables dynamically at run time without having prior knowledge of its implementation.
0;In above example the null parameter is the object you want to invoke the method on.
0; If the method is static you supply null.
0; If the method is not static, then while invoking you need to supply a valid MyObject instance instead of null.
0;Reflection also allows you to access private member methods of a class.
0;Reflection is a very powerful API but it may slow down the application if used in excess, as it resolves all the types at runtime.
0;Example .
0; Take for example a remote application which gives your application an object which you obtain using their API Methods .
0; Now based on the object you might need to perform some sort of computation .
0; The provider guarantees that object can be of 3 types and we need to perform computation based on what type of object .
0; So we might implement in 3 classes each containing a different logic .
0;Obviously the object information is available in runtime so you cannot statically code to perform computation hence reflection is used to instantiate the object of the class that you require to perform the computation based on the object received from the provider .
0;Java Reflection is quite powerful and can be very useful.
0; Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime, without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc.
0; at compile time.
0; It is also possible to instantiate new objects, invoke methods and get set field values using reflection.
0;A quick Java Reflection example to show you what using reflection looks like.
0;This example obtains the Class object from the class called MyObject.
0; Using the class object the example gets a list of the methods in that class, iterates the methods and print out their names.
0;Exactly how all this works is explained here.
0;Edit.
0; After almost 1 year I am editing this answer as while reading about reflection I got few more uses of Reflection.
0; Spring uses bean configuration such as.
0;When the Spring context processes this   bean   element, it will use Class.
0;forNamewith the argument  com.
0;example.
0;Foo  to instantiate that Class.
0;It will then again use reflection to get the appropriate setter for the   property   element and set its value to the specified value.
0; Junit uses Reflection especially for testing Private Protected methods.
0;For Private methods,.
0;For private fields,.
0;As per my understanding.
0;Reflection allows programmer to access entities in program dynamically.
0; i.
0;e.
0; while coding an application if programmer is unaware about a class or its methods, he can make use of such class dynamically by using reflection.
0;It is frequently used in scenarios where a class name changes frequently.
0; If such a situation arises, then it is complicated for the programmer to rewrite the application and change the name of the class again and again.
0;Instead, by using reflection, there is need to worry about a possibly changing class name.
0;simple example for reflection.
0; In a Chess Game, you do not know what will be moved by the user at run time.
0; reflection can be used to call methods which are already implemented at run time.
0;Reflection is a set of functions which allows you to access the runtime information of your program and modify it behavior .
0;It s useful because it allows you to change the runtime behaivour depending on the meta information of your program, that is, you can check the return type of a function and change the way you handle the situation.
0;In C  for example you can load an assembly  a .
0;dll  in runtime an examine it, navigating through the classes and taking actions according to what you found.
0; It also let you create an instance of a class on runtime, invoke its method, etc.
0;Where can it be useful  Is not useful everytime but for concrete situations.
0; For example you can use it to get the name of the class for loggin purposes, to dinamically create handlers for events according to what s specified on a configuration file and so on.
0;From java documentation page.
0;java.
0;lang.
0;reflect package provides classes and interfaces for obtaining reflective information about classes and objects.
0; Reflection allows programmatic access to information about the fields, methods and constructors of loaded classes, and the use of reflected fields, methods, and constructors to operate on their underlying counterparts, within security restrictions.
0;AccessibleObject allows suppression of access checks if the necessary ReflectPermission is available.
0;Classes in this package, along with java.
0;lang.
0;Class accommodate applications such as debuggers, interpreters, object inspectors, class browsers, and services such as Object Serialization and JavaBeans that need access to either the public members of a target object or the members declared by a given class.
0;It includes following functionality.
0;Have a look at this documentation link for the methods exposed by Class class.
0;From this article and this article .
0;I can see considerable drawbacks than uses of using Reflection.
0;User of Reflection.
0;Drawbacks of Reflection.
0;General abuses.
0;Have a look at this SE question regarding abuse of reflection feature.
0;How do I read a private field in Java .
0;Summary.
0;Insecure use of its functions conducted from within a system code can also easily lead to the compromise of a Java security model.
0; So use this feature sparingly.
0;I just want to add some point to all that was listed.
0;With Reflection API you can write universal toStringmethod for any object.
0;It is useful at debugging.
0;Here is some example.
0;Reflection has many uses.
0; The one I am more familiar with, is to be able to create code on the fly.
0;IE.
0; dynamic classes, functions, constructors _ based on any data  xml array sql results hardcoded etc.
0; .
0;Reflection is to let object to see their appearance.
0; This argument seems nothing to do with reflection.
0; In fact, this is the  self_identify  ability.
0;Reflection itself is a word for such languages that lack capability of self_knowledge and self_sensing as Java and C .
0; Because they do not have the capability of self_knowledge, when we want to observe how it looks like, we must have another thing to reflect how it looks like.
0; Excellent dynamic languages such as Ruby and Python can perceive the reflection of their own without the help of other individuals.
0; We can say that the object of Java cannot perceive how it looks like without a mirror, which is an object of the reflection class, but object in Python can perceive it without a mirror.
0; So that s why we need reflection in Java.
0;Reflection is an API which is used to examine or modify the behaviour of methods, classes, interfaces at runtime.
0;The java.
0;lang and java.
0;lang.
0;reflect packages provide classes for java reflection.
0;Reflection can be used to get information about  .
0;Class The getClassmethod is used to get the name of the class to which an object belongs.
0;Constructors The getConstructorsmethod is used to get the public constructors of the class to which an object belongs.
0;Methods The getMethodsmethod is used to get the public methods of the class to which an objects belongs.
0;The Reflection API is mainly used in.
0;IDE e.
0;g.
0; Eclipse, MyEclipse, NetBeans etc.
0; Debugger and Test Tools etc.
0;Advantages of Using Reflection.
0;Extensibility Features.
0; An application may make use of external, user_defined classes by creating instances of extensibility objects using their fully_qualified names.
0;Debugging and testing tools.
0; Debuggers use the property of reflection to examine private members on classes.
0;Drawbacks.
0;Performance Overhead.
0; Reflective operations have slower performance than their non_reflective counterparts, and should be avoided in sections of code which are called frequently in performance_sensitive applications.
0;Exposure of Internals.
0; Reflective code breaks abstractions and therefore may change behaviour with upgrades of the platform.
0;Ref.
0; Java Reflection javarevisited.
0;blogspot.
0;in.
0;Reflection gives you ability to write more generic code .
0; It allows you to create object at runtime and call its method at runtime.
0; Hence the program can be made higly parameterised.
0; It also allow to introspect the object and class to detect its variables and method exposed to outer world.
0;As name itself suggest it reflects what it holds for example class method,etc apart from providing feature to invoke method creating instance dynamically at runtime.
0;It is used by many frameworks and application under the wood to invoke services without actually knowing the code.
0;Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime, without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc.
0; at compile time.
0; Mostly at framework level the maximum benefits of reflection can be achieved.
0; The byte code that is compiled if needs extra modification at run time for examination, modification, addition of more byte code within itself, or another program or another framework at method level, instance variable level, constructor level, annotation level reflection can be useful.
0;Suppose you have a method add.
0; The equivalent byte code is suppose B1.
0; If suppose you have 1000 methods named add in your system.
0; Now you want to check the value of parameter a and b before method add is called.
0; So, you can glue your code to another program or framework that uses reflection to dynamically examine the byte code value using Object.
0;getClass.
0;getMethod.
0; There are several classes for examining.
0; It can add more operation before method add is called.
0; But, the program itself or another program or framework does not know about the object that has a method named add.
0; Mostly in dependency injection, aspect oriented programming use of reflection is mostly used.
0;Thank you for your interest in this question.
0; Because it has attracted low_quality or spam answers that had to be removed, posting an answer now requires 10 reputation on this site .
0; Would you like to answer one of these unanswered questions instead .
0;asked.
0;8 years, 10 months ago.
0;viewed.
0;610,076 times.
0;active.
0;1 month ago.
0;site design   logo   2017 Stack Exchange Inc  user contributions licensed under cc by_sa 3.
0;0 with attribution required.
0; rev 2017.
0;6.
0;27.
0;26343.
0;help chat Stack Overflow.
0;Meta Stack Overflow.
0;Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site.
0;Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have.
0;Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site.
0;About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company.
0;Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us.
0;For inspection of classes you don t need to import the reflection package   Class metadata can be accessed through java lang Class .
0;Custom error message of re_thrown exception not printed by what.
0;Simplify expression with Sqrt.
0;Expanding TikZ automata from a single line to a grid.
0;My manager wants regression testing in the QA environment _ how to communicate against that .
0;What verb should be used with  puzzles   We  raise  them,  cast  them,     or we simply  say  them .
0;Why did Stalin and the Soviet leadership have Leon Trotsky assassinated .
0;Calculating the derivative of an integral.
0;Why did Vision end up in Iron Man s team .
0;How can I clean up excessive player_created rubble .
0;Those Greedy Romans .
0;Is Leomund s Tiny Hut stationary relative to the ground or to the surface it s cast on .
0;Is 100 hours per year of teaching a heavy load for a lecturer .
0;Different behaviour of cd with multiple arguments in bash releases.
0;Student names on academic website.
0;License plates in Zootopia.
0;Does Green Lord s Gift effectively make all heal spells roll max on the Warlock .
0;How to get started writing C in 1980_81.
0;Would it hurt racial balance if every PC gets a bonus feat at level 1 .
0;What makes the Free Cities  free  .
0;Who is Panama Oxridge .
0;Am I Obligated to Enforce Detrimental Company Policy .
0;What does        mean .
0;Why didn t the Fellowship use horses for transportation .
0;Teenagers Ogling my Daughter  What to do .
0;Questions.
0;Jobs.
0;Developer Jobs Directory.
0;Documentation.
0;Help.
0;Mobile.
0;Talent.
0;Ads.
0;Enterprise.
0;Insights.
0;About.
0;Work Here.
0;Legal.
0;Privacy Policy.
0;Contact Us.
0;Technology.
0;Life   Arts.
0;Culture   Recreation.
0;Science.
0;Other.
0;Stack Overflow.
0;Server Fault.
0;Super User.
0;Web Applications.
0;Ask Ubuntu.
0;Webmasters.
0;Game Development.
0;TeX _ LaTeX.
0;Software Engineering.
0;Unix   Linux.
0;Ask Different .
0;WordPress Development.
0;Geographic Information Systems.
0;Electrical Engineering.
0;Android Enthusiasts.
0;Information Security.
0;Database Administrators.
0;Drupal Answers.
0;SharePoint.
0;User Experience.
0;Mathematica.
0;Salesforce.
0;ExpressionEngine  Answers.
0;Cryptography.
0;Code Review.
0;Magento.
0;Signal Processing.
0;Raspberry Pi.
0;Programming Puzzles   Code Golf.
0;more .
0;Photography.
0;Science Fiction   Fantasy.
0;Graphic Design.
0;Movies   TV.
0;Music  Practice   Theory.
0;Seasoned Advice .
0;Home Improvement.
0;Personal Finance   Money.
0;Academia.
0;more .
0;English Language   Usage.
0;Skeptics.
0;Mi Yodeya .
0;Travel.
0;Christianity.
0;English Language Learners.
0;Japanese Language.
0;Arqade .
0;Bicycles.
0;Role_playing Games.
0;Anime   Manga.
0;Motor Vehicle Maintenance   Repair.
0;more .
0;MathOverflow.
0;Mathematics.
0;Cross Validated .
0;Theoretical Computer Science.
0;Physics.
0;Chemistry.
0;Biology.
0;Computer Science.
0;Philosophy.
0;more .
0;Meta Stack Exchange.
0;Stack Apps.
0;API.
0;Data.
0;Area 51.
0;Blog.
0;Facebook.
0;Twitter.
0;LinkedIn.
0;MathOverflow.
0;Mathematics.
0;Cross Validated .
0;Theoretical Computer Science.
0;Physics.
0;Chemistry.
0;Biology.
0;  getSimpleString  .
0;.
0;.
0;  getSimpleString  .
0;  getSimpleString  .
0;.
0;  getSimpleString  .
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;Type introspection is the ability of a program to examine the type or properties of an object at runtime.
0; Just as we mentioned in the intro, the types of questions you might want to ask are what type is this object, or is it an instance of a certain class.
0; Some languages even allow you to traverse the inheritance hierarchy to see if your object is derived from an inherited base class.
0; Several languages have the type introspection capability, such as Ruby, Java, PHP, Python, C  , and more.
0; Overall, type introspection is a very simple concept to understand   and you can really write powerful logic when you can query some of the metadata about your objects.
0; Below are some examples of type introspection in the wild.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;If type introspection allows you to inspect an object s attributes at runtime, then reflection is what allows you to manipulate those attributes at runtime.
0; As a concrete definition, reflection is the ability of a computer program to examine and modify the structure and behavior of a program at runtime.
0; In layman s terms, what this allows you to do is invoke a method on an object, instantiate a new object, or modify an attribute of an object   all without knowing the names of the interfaces, fields, methods at compile time.
0; Because of the runtime_specific nature of reflection, it s more difficult to implement reflection in a statically_typed language compared to a dynamically_typed language because type checking occurs at compile time in a statically_typed language instead of at runtime .
0; However it is by no means impossible, as Java, C , and other modern statically_typed languages allow for both type introspection and reflection .
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;The following examples show an instance foo of a class Foo being created, and a method hello of the instance being called.
0; For each language, two versions are shown  the first being a call sequence without reflection and the second using reflection to access the class and the method.
0;.
0;.
