In signal processing  a window function  also known as an apodization function or tapering function  is a mathematical function that is zero valued outside of some chosen interval.
 For instance  a function that is constant inside the interval and zero elsewhere is called a rectangular window  which describes the shape of its graphical representation.
 When another function or waveform data sequence is multiplied by a window function  the product is also zero valued outside the interval  all that is left is the part where they overlap  the  view through the window .
In typical applications  the window functions used are non negative  smooth   bell shaped  curves.
 Rectangle  triangle  and other functions can also be used.
 A more general definition of window functions does not require them to be identically zero outside an interval  as long as the product of the window multiplied by its argument is square integrable  and  more specifically  that the function goes sufficiently rapidly toward zero.
.
.
Applications of window functions include spectral analysis modification resynthesis  the design of finite impulse response filters  as well as beamforming and antenna design.
The Fourier transform of the function cos  t is zero  except at frequency   .
 However  many other functions and waveforms do not have convenient closed form transforms.
 Alternatively  one might be interested in their spectral content only during a certain time period.
In either case  the Fourier transform  or a similar transform  can be applied on one or more finite intervals of the waveform.
 In general  the transform is applied to the product of the waveform and a window function.
 Any window  including rectangular  affects the spectral estimate computed by this method.
Windowing of a simple waveform like cos  t causes its Fourier transform to develop non zero values  commonly called spectral leakage  at frequencies other than  .
 The leakage tends to be worst  highest  near   and least at frequencies farthest from  .
If the waveform under analysis comprises two sinusoids of different frequencies  leakage can interfere with the ability to distinguish them spectrally.
 If their frequencies are dissimilar and one component is weaker  then leakage from the stronger component can obscure the weaker one s presence.
 But if the frequencies are similar  leakage can render them unresolvable even when the sinusoids are of equal strength.
 The rectangular window has excellent resolution characteristics for sinusoids of comparable strength  but it is a poor choice for sinusoids of disparate amplitudes.
 This characteristic is sometimes described as low dynamic range.
At the other extreme of dynamic range are the windows with the poorest resolution and sensitivity  which is the ability to reveal relatively weak sinusoids in the presence of additive random noise.
 That is because the noise produces a stronger response with high dynamic range windows than with high resolution windows.
 Therefore  high dynamic range windows are most often justified in wideband applications  where the spectrum being analyzed is expected to contain many different components of various amplitudes.
In between the extremes are moderate windows  such as Hamming and Hann.
 They are commonly used in narrowband applications  such as the spectrum of a telephone channel.
 In summary  spectral analysis involves a trade off between resolving comparable strength components with similar frequencies and resolving disparate strength components with dissimilar frequencies.
 That trade off occurs when the window function is chosen.
When the input waveform is time sampled  instead of continuous  the analysis is usually done by applying a window function and then a discrete Fourier transform  DFT .
 But the DFT provides only a sparse sampling of the actual discrete time Fourier transform  DTFT  spectrum.
 Figure 1 shows a portion of the DTFT for a rectangularly windowed sinusoid.
 The actual frequency of the sinusoid is indicated as  0  on the horizontal axis.
 Everything else is leakage  exaggerated by the use of a logarithmic presentation.
 The unit of frequency is  DFT bins   that is  the integer values on the frequency axis correspond to the frequencies sampled by the DFT.
 So the figure depicts a case where the actual frequency of the sinusoid coincides with a DFT sample  and the maximum value of the spectrum is accurately measured by that sample.
 When it misses the maximum value by some amount  up to   bin   the measurement error is referred to as scalloping loss  inspired by the shape of the peak .
 For a known frequency  such as a musical note or a sinusoidal test signal  matching the frequency to a DFT bin can be prearranged by choices of a sampling rate and a window length that results in an integer number of cycles within the window.
The concepts of resolution and dynamic range tend to be somewhat subjective  depending on what the user is actually trying to do.
 But they also tend to be highly correlated with the total leakage  which is quantifiable.
 It is usually expressed as an equivalent bandwidth  B.
 It can be thought of as redistributing the DTFT into a rectangular shape with height equal to the spectral maximum and width B.
 The more the leakage  the greater the bandwidth.
 It is sometimes called noise equivalent bandwidth or equivalent noise bandwidth  because it is proportional to the average power that will be registered by each DFT bin when the input signal contains a random noise component  or is just random noise .
 A graph of the power spectrum  averaged over time  typically reveals a flat noise floor  caused by this effect.
 The height of the noise floor is proportional to B.
 So two different window functions can produce different noise floors.
In signal processing  operations are chosen to improve some aspect of quality of a signal by exploiting the differences between the signal and the corrupting influences.
 When the signal is a sinusoid corrupted by additive random noise  spectral analysis distributes the signal and noise components differently  often making it easier to detect the signal s presence or measure certain characteristics  such as amplitude and frequency.
 Effectively  the signal to noise ratio  SNR  is improved by distributing the noise uniformly  while concentrating most of the sinusoid s energy around one frequency.
 Processing gain is a term often used to describe an SNR improvement.
 The processing gain of spectral analysis depends on the window function  both its noise bandwidth  B  and its potential scalloping loss.
 These effects partially offset  because windows with the least scalloping naturally have the most leakage.
The figure at right depicts the effects of three different window functions on the same data set  comprising two equal strength sinusoids in additive noise.
 The frequencies of the sinusoids are chosen such that one encounters no scalloping and the other encounters maximum scalloping.
 Both sinusoids suffer less SNR loss under the Hann window than under the Blackman Harris window.
 In general  as mentioned earlier   this is a deterrent to using high dynamic range windows in low dynamic range applications.
Windows are sometimes used in the design of digital filters  in particular to convert an  ideal  impulse response of infinite duration  such as a sinc function  to a finite impulse response  FIR  filter design.
 That is called the window method.
Window functions are sometimes used in the field of statistical analysis to restrict the set of data being analyzed to a range near a given point  with a weighting factor that diminishes the effect of points farther away from the portion of the curve being fit.
 In the field of Bayesian analysis and curve fitting   this is often referred to as the kernel.
When analyzing a transient signal in modal analysis  such as an impulse  a shock response  a sine burst  a chirp burst  or noise burst  where the energy vs time distribution is extremely uneven  the rectangular window may be most appropriate.
 For instance  when most of the energy is located at the beginning of the recording  a non rectangular window attenuates most of the energy  degrading the signal to noise ratio.
One might wish to measure the harmonic content of a musical note from a particular instrument or the harmonic distortion of an amplifier at a given frequency.
 Referring again to Figure 1  we can observe that there is no leakage at a discrete set of harmonically related frequencies sampled by the DFT.
  The spectral nulls are actually zero crossings  which cannot be shown on a logarithmic scale such as this.
  This property is unique to the rectangular window  and it must be appropriately configured for the signal frequency  as described above.
Window functions generated for digital filter design are symmetrical sequences  usually an odd length with a single maximum at the center.
 Windows for DFT FFT usage  as in spectral analysis or time frequency filtering  are even length sequences  usually created by deleting the right most coefficient of an odd length  symmetrical window.
 These are known as periodic  or DFT even.
 Such a window is generated by the MATLAB function hann 512  periodic   for instance.
 To generate it with the formula in section Hann window  the window length  N  is 513  and the 513th coefficient of the generated sequence is discarded.
 With N 512  the same formula is equivalent to hann 512  symmetric  .
The DFT of an N length DFT even window has zero valued imaginary components  because the n 0 and n N 2 samples do not contribute to them  and the other samples are all symmetric about N 2  causing their contributions to cancel each other  i.
e.
   e   i 2   k n   N   e   i 2   k   N   n     N   2 cos     2   k n   N     displaystyle e   i2 pi kn N  e   i2 pi k N n  N  2 cos 2 pi kn N     is real valued.
 The inverse DFT is always N periodic  but when the input is a DFT even window  the inverse is symmetrical around the origin  which is the classic indicator of a real valued frequency domain representation.
 See section Cosine windows for an example of how this characteristic can be beneficial.
For a window function with zero valued end points  deleting one or both end points has no effect on its DTFT  spectral leakage .
 But the function designed for N 1 samples  in anticipation of deleting an end point  typically has a slightly narrower main lobe  slightly higher sidelobes  and a slightly lower noise bandwidth.
 Similarly  deleting both zeros from a function designed for N 2 samples further amplifies those effects.
There is also a cosmetic result of truncating an N 1 sample symmetric window.
 It happens when we sample the DTFT only at intervals of 1 N   displaystyle   tfrac  1  N    cycles sample  which is the effect of an N point DFT.
 For example  the N point DFT of the sequence generated by hann N  periodic   has only 3 non zero values.
  see DFT even Hann window  All the other samples coincide with zero crossings of the DTFT  which creates an illusion of little or no spectral leakage.
 Such a sparse sampling only reveals the leakage into the DFT bins from a sinusoid whose frequency is also an integer DFT bin.
 The unseen sidelobes reveal the leakage to expect from sinusoids at other frequencies.
 That is why it s important to sample the DTFT more densely  as we do in the subsequent sections  and choose a window that suppresses the sidelobes to an acceptable level.
Terminology .
The rectangular window  sometimes known as the boxcar or Dirichlet window  is the simplest window  equivalent to replacing all but N values of a data sequence by zeros  making it appear as though the waveform suddenly turns on and off .
Other windows are designed to moderate these sudden changes  which reduces scalloping loss and improves dynamic range  as described above  Window function Spectral analysis .
The rectangular window is the 1st order B spline window as well as the 0th power cosine window.
B spline windows can be obtained as k fold convolutions of the rectangular window.
 They include the rectangular window itself  k   1   the triangular window  k   2  and the Parzen window  k   4 .
 Alternative definitions sample the appropriate normalized B spline basis functions instead of convolving discrete time windows.
 A kth order B spline basis function is a piece wise polynomial function of degree k 1 that is obtained by k fold self convolution of the rectangular function.
Triangular windows are given by .
where L can be N  N 1  or N 1.
 The last one is also known as Bartlett window or Fej r window.
 All three definitions converge at large N.
The triangular window is the 2nd order B spline window and can be seen as the convolution of two N 2 width rectangular windows.
 The Fourier transform of the result is the squared values of the transform of the half width rectangular window.
The Parzen window  also known as the de la Vall e Poussin window  is the 4th order B spline window given by .
The Welch window consists of a single parabolic section .
The defining quadratic polynomial reaches a value of zero at the samples just outside the span of the window.
Symmetric and DFT even  periodic  Cosine windows have the following forms  respectively .
The popular periodic form has only 2K   1 non zero N point DFT coefficients  and they are all real valued  see Symmetry .
  These properties make periodic Cosine windows a natural choice for real time applications that require both windowed and non windowed  rectangularly windowed  transforms  because the windowed transforms can be efficiently derived from the non windowed transforms by convolution.
 The formulas below are symmetric.
 As discussed earlier  choosing an odd value of N and dropping the last coefficient also produces a periodic  DFT even  window.
The Hann window  which also goes by the aliases raised cosine and Hanning  is named after Julius von Hann  and is defined by .
The ends of the cosine just touch zero  so the side lobes roll off at about 18 dB per octave.
The window with these particular coefficients was proposed by Richard W.
 Hamming.
 The window is optimized to minimize the maximum  nearest  side lobe  giving it a height of about one fifth that of the Hann window.
with.
instead of both constants being equal to 1 2 in the Hann window.
 The constants are approximations of values     25 46 and     21 46  which cancel the first sidelobe of the Hann window by placing a zero at frequency 5   N   1 .
 Approximation of the constants to two decimal places substantially lowers the level of sidelobes  to a nearly equiripple condition.
 In the equiripple sense  the optimal values for the coefficients are     0.
53836 and     0.
46164.
Blackman windows are defined as .
By common convention  the unqualified term Blackman window refers to Blackman s  not very serious proposal  of     0.
16  a0   0.
42  a1   0.
5  a2   0.
08   which closely approximates the  exact Blackman   with a0   7938 18608   0.
42659  a1   9240 18608   0.
49656  and a2   1430 18608   0.
076849.
 These exact values place zeros at the third and fourth sidelobes  but result in a discontinuity at the edges and a 6 dB oct fall off.
 The truncated coefficients do not null the sidelobes as well  but have an improved 18 dB oct fall off.
Considering n as a real number  the Nuttall window function and its first derivative are continuous everywhere.
 That is  the function goes to 0 at n   0  unlike the Blackman Nuttall and Blackman Harris windows  which have a small positive value at zero  at  step  from the zero outside the window   like the Hamming window.
 The Blackman window defined via   is also continuous with continuous derivative at the edge  but the described  exact Blackman window  is not.
A generalization of the Hamming family  produced by adding more shifted sinc functions  meant to minimize side lobe levels.
A flat top window is a partially negative valued window that has minimal scalloping loss in the frequency domain.
 Such windows have been made available in spectrum analyzers for the measurement of amplitudes of sinusoidal frequency components.
 Drawbacks of the broad bandwidth are poor frequency resolution and high noise bandwidth.
Flat top windows can be designed using low pass filter design methods  or they may be of the usual sum of cosine terms variety.
 An example of the latter is the flat top window available in the Stanford Research Systems  SRS  SR785 spectrum analyzer .
Rife and Vincent define three classes of windows constructed as sums of cosines  the classes are generalizations of the Hanning window.
 Their order P windows are of the form  normalized to have unity average as opposed to unity max as the windows above are  .
For order 1  this formula can match the Hanning window for a1    1  this is the Rife Vincent class I window  defined by minimizing the high order sidelobe amplitude.
 The class I order 2 Rife Vincent window has a1    4 3 and a2   1 3.
 Coefficients for orders up to 4 are tabulated.
 For orders greater than 1  the Rife Vincent window coefficients can be optimized for class II  meaning minimized main lobe width for a given maximum side lobe  or for class III  a compromise for which order 2 resembles Blackmann s window.
 Given the wide variety of Rife Vincent windows  plots are not given here.
Window functions in the power of cosine family are of the form .
The rectangular window      0   the cosine window      1   and the Hann window      2  are members of this family.
The cosine window is also known as the sine window.
 Cosine window describes the shape of w 0   n     displaystyle w  0  n    .
A cosine window convolved by itself is known as the Bohman window.
The Fourier transform of a Gaussian is also a Gaussian  it is an eigenfunction of the Fourier Transform .
 Since the Gaussian function extends to infinity  it must either be truncated at the ends of the window  or itself windowed with another zero ended window.
Since the log of a Gaussian produces a parabola  this can be used for nearly exact quadratic interpolation in frequency estimation.
The standard deviation of the Gaussian function is   N 1  2 sampling periods.
The confined Gaussian window yields the smallest possible root mean square frequency width    for a given temporal width  t.
 These windows optimize the RMS time frequency bandwidth products.
 They are computed as the minimum eigenvectors of a parameter dependent matrix.
 The confined Gaussian window family contains the cosine window and the Gaussian window in the limiting cases of large and small  t  respectively.
A confined Gaussian window of temporal width  t is well approximated by .
with the Gaussian .
The temporal width of the approximate window is asymptotically equal to  t for  t   0.
14 N.
A more generalized version of the Gaussian window is the generalized normal window.
 Retaining the notation from the Gaussian window above  we can represent this window as.
for any even p   displaystyle p  .
 At p   2   displaystyle p 2    this is a Gaussian window and as p   displaystyle p  approaches     displaystyle  infty     this approximates to a rectangular window.
 The Fourier transform of this window does not exist in a closed form for a general p   displaystyle p  .
 However  it demonstrates the other benefits of being smooth  adjustable bandwidth.
 Like the Tukey window discussed later  this window naturally offers a  flat top  to control the amplitude attenuation of a time series  on which we don t have a control with Gaussian window .
 In essence  it offers a good  controllable  compromise  in terms of spectral leakage  frequency resolution and amplitude attenuation  between the Gaussian window and the rectangular window.
 See also  for a study on time frequency representation of this window  or function .
The Tukey window  also known as the tapered cosine window  can be regarded as a cosine lobe of width  N 2 that is convolved with a rectangular window of width  1     2 N.
or expressed with the havercosine  hvc  function .
At     0 it becomes rectangular  and at     1 it becomes a Hann window.
The so called  Planck taper  window is a bump function that has been widely used in the theory of partitions of unity in manifolds.
 It is smooth  a C     displaystyle C   infty    function  everywhere  but is exactly zero outside of a compact region  exactly one over an interval within that region  and varies smoothly and monotonically between those limits.
 Its use as a window function in signal processing was first suggested in the context of gravitational wave astronomy  inspired by the Planck distribution.
 It is defined as a piecewise function .
where.
The amount of tapering  the region over which the function is exactly 1  is controlled by the parameter    with smaller values giving sharper transitions.
The DPSS  discrete prolate spheroidal sequence  or Slepian window is used to maximize the energy concentration in the main lobe.
The main lobe ends at a bin given by the parameter  .
The Kaiser  or Kaiser Bessel  window is a simple approximation of the DPSS window using Bessel functions  discovered by Jim Kaiser.
where I0 is the zero th order modified Bessel function of the first kind.
 Variable parameter   determines the tradeoff between main lobe width and side lobe levels of the spectral leakage pattern.
 The main lobe width  in between the nulls  is given by   2 1     2     displaystyle 2  sqrt  1  alpha   2        in units of DFT bins   and a typical value of   is 3.
Minimizes the Chebyshev norm of the side lobes for a given main lobe width.
The zero phase Dolph Chebyshev window function w0 n  is usually defined in terms of its real valued discrete Fourier transform  W0 k  .
where the parameter   sets the Chebyshev norm of the sidelobes to  20  decibels.
The window function can be calculated from W0 k  by an inverse discrete Fourier transform  DFT  .
The lagged version of the window  with 0   n   N 1  can be obtained by .
which for even values of N must be computed as follows .
which is an inverse DFT of       e i   N   k   W 0   k   .
   displaystyle   e   frac  i pi   N     k  cdot W  0  k .
 .
Variations .
The Ultraspherical window was introduced in 1984 by Roy Streit and has application in antenna array design  non recursive filter design  and spectrum analysis.
Like other adjustable windows  the Ultraspherical window has parameters that can be used to control its Fourier transform main lobe width and relative side lobe amplitude.
 Uncommon to other windows  it has an additional parameter which can be used to set the rate at which side lobes decrease  or increase  in amplitude.
The window can be expressed in the time domain as follows .
where C N     displaystyle C  N    mu    is the Ultraspherical polynomial of degree N  and x 0   displaystyle x  0   and     displaystyle  mu   control the side lobe patterns.
Certain specific values of     displaystyle  mu   yield other well known windows      0   displaystyle  mu  0  and     1   displaystyle  mu  1  give the Dolph Chebyshev and Saram ki windows respectively.
 See here for illustration of Ultraspherical windows with varied parametrization.
The Poisson window  or more generically the exponential window increases exponentially towards the center of the window and decreases exponentially in the second half.
 Since the exponential function never reaches zero  the values of the window at its limits are non zero  it can be seen as the multiplication of an exponential function by a rectangular window  .
 It is defined by.
where   is the time constant of the function.
 The exponential function decays as e   2.
71828 or approximately 8.
69 dB per time constant.
 This means that for a targeted decay of D dB over half of the window length  the time constant   is given by.
Window functions have also been constructed as multiplicative or additive combinations of other windows.
A Planck taper window multiplied by a Kaiser window which is defined in terms of a modified Bessel function.
 This hybrid window function was introduced to decrease the peak side lobe level of the Planck taper window while still exploiting its good asymptotic decay.
 It has two tunable parameters    from the Planck taper and   from the Kaiser window  so it can be adjusted to fit the requirements of a given signal.
A Hann window multiplied by a Poisson window  which has no side lobes  in the sense that its Fourier transform drops off forever away from the main lobe.
 It can thus be used in hill climbing algorithms like Newton s method.
 The Hann Poisson window is defined by .
where   is a parameter that controls the slope of the exponential.
When selecting an appropriate window function for an application  this comparison graph may be useful.
 The frequency axis has units of FFT  bins  when the window of length N is applied to data and a transform of length N is computed.
 For instance  the value at frequency    bin   third tick mark  is the response that would be measured in bins k and k 1 to a sinusoidal signal at frequency k  .
 It is relative to the maximum possible response  which occurs when the signal frequency is an integer number of bins.
 The value at frequency   is referred to as the maximum scalloping loss of the window  which is one metric used to compare windows.
 The rectangular window is noticeably worse than the others in terms of that metric.
Other metrics that can be seen are the width of the main lobe and the peak level of the sidelobes  which respectively determine the ability to resolve comparable strength signals and disparate strength signals.
 The rectangular window  for instance  is the best choice for the former and the worst choice for the latter.
 What cannot be seen from the graphs is that the rectangular window has the best noise bandwidth  which makes it a good candidate for detecting low level sinusoids in an otherwise white noise environment.
 Interpolation techniques  such as zero padding and frequency shifting  are available to mitigate its potential scalloping loss.
When the length of a data set to be transformed is larger than necessary to provide the desired frequency resolution  a common practice is to subdivide it into smaller sets and window them individually.
 To mitigate the  loss  at the edges of the window  the individual sets may overlap in time.
 See Welch method of power spectral analysis and the modified discrete cosine transform.
Two dimensional windows are used in  e.
g.
  image processing.
 They can be constructed from one dimensional windows in either of two forms.
The separable form  W   m   n     w   m   w   n     displaystyle W m n  w m w n   is trivial to compute.
 The radial form  W   m   n     w   r     displaystyle W m n  w r     which involves the radius r     m   M   2   2     n   N   2   2   displaystyle r   sqrt   m M 2   2   n N 2   2       is isotropic  independent on the orientation of the coordinate axes.
 Only the Gaussian function is both separable and isotropic.
 The separable forms of all other window functions have corners that depend on the choice of the coordinate axes.
 The isotropy anisotropy of a two dimensional window function is shared by its two dimensional Fourier transform.
 The difference between the separable and radial forms is akin to the result of diffraction from rectangular vs.
 circular appertures  which can be visualized in terms of the product of two sinc functions vs.
 an Airy function  respectively.
.
.
.
.
If we look at a rectangular window  we know from duality that the frequency response of that window is a sinc function  which has non zero values all the way out to both positive and negative infinity.
 Convolution of the sinc function with any narrow band signal is going to cause a very spread out spectrum.
In signal processing  a window function  also known as an apodization function or tapering function  is a mathematical function that is zero valued outside of some chosen interval.
 For instance  a function that is constant inside the interval and zero elsewhere is called a rectangular window  which describes the shape of its graphical representation.
 When another function or waveform data sequence is multiplied by a window function  the product is also zero valued outside the interval  all that is left is the part where they overlap  the  view through the window .
.
.
In typical applications  the window functions used are non negative  smooth   bell shaped  curves.
 Rectangle  triangle  and other functions can also be used.
 A more general definition of window functions does not require them to be identically zero outside an interval  as long as the product of the window multiplied by its argument is square integrable  and  more specifically  that the function goes sufficiently rapidly toward zero.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
When designing digital filters we start off with FIR and IIR.
 Later on we talk about window functions e.
g Kaiser and Hamming windows.
First you need to understand that windows  such as the Kaiser or Hanning  are used to design FIR filters  not IIR.
 Windows are also used for spectral analysis  but I think you are only asking about them with regard to filter design.
which window is preferable for FIR Filter design .
Your main question is  Why do we prefer window techniques compared to other techniques for FIR Filter design  .
 Probably  because of the simplicity in the design  and because the design method is very well understood with basic DSP knowledge.
 Also  you can get good results for many applications.
 But you must also considere Optimum equiripple linear phase filters.
