Due to the deficiencies of the previous strategies, routing protocols become necessary in wireless sensor networks.
 Nevertheless, the inclusion of a routing protocol in a wireless sensor network is not a trivial task.
 One of the main limitations is the identification of nodes.
 Since wireless sensor networks are formed by a significant number of nodes, the manual assignation of unique identifiers becomes infeasible .
 The use of potentially unique identifier such as the MAC address or the GPS coordinates is not recommended as it forces a significant payload in the messages .
 However, this drawback is easily overcome in wireless sensor networks since an IP address is not required to identify the destination node of a specific packet.
 In fact, attribute_based addressing fits better with the specificities of wireless sensor networks.
 In this case, an attribute such as node location and sensor type is used to identify the final destination.
Wireless sensor networks are formed by a significant number of nodes so the manual assignation of unique identifiers is infeasible.
 The use of the MAC address or the GPS coordinates is not recommended as it introduces a significant payload .
 However, network_wide unique addresses are not needed to identify the destination node of a specific packet in wireless sensor networks.
 In fact, attribute_based addressing fits better with the specificities of wireless sensor networks.
 In this case, an attribute such as node location and sensor type is used to identify the final destination.
 Concerning these identifiers, two different approaches have been proposed .
 Firstly, the ID reuse scheme allows identifiers to be repeated in the network but keeping their uniqueness in close areas.
 In this way, a node knows that its identifier is unique in a k_hop neighborhood, being k a parameter to configure.
 On the other hand, the field_wide unique ID schemes guarantee that the identifiers are unique in the whole application.
 With this assumption, other protocols such as routing, MAC or network configurations can be simultaneously used.
Routing in Wireless Sensor Networks plays a significant role in the field of environment_oriented monitoring, traffic monitoring, etc.
 Here, wide contributions that are made toward routing in WSN are explored.
 The paper mainly aims to categorize the routing problems and examines the routing_related optimization problems.
 For achieving the motive, 50 papers from the standard journals are collected and primarily reviewed in a chronological way.
 Later, various features that are related to energy, security, speed and reliability problems of routing are discussed.
 Subsequently, the literature is analyzed based on the simulation environment and experimental setup, awareness over the Quality of Service and the deployment against various applications.
 In addition, the optimization of the routing algorithms and the meta_heuristic study of routing optimization are explored.
 Routing is a vast area with numerous unsolved issues and hence, various research gaps along with future directions are also presented.
