A database model is a type of data model that determines the logical structure of a database and fundamentally determines in which manner data can be stored, organized and manipulated.
0.957: (A database model; is a type of; data model that determines the logical structure of a database and fundamentally determines)
0.725: (A database model; is; a type of data model)

 The most popular example of a database model is the relational model, which uses a table_based format.
0.745: (The most popular example of a database model; is; the relational model which uses a table_based format)
0.564: (a table_based format; be uses by; the relational model)
0.492: (the relational model which uses a table_based format; be The most popular example of; a database model)

.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

Common logical data models for databases include .
No extractions found.

An object_relational database combines the two related structures.
0.782: (An object_relational database; combines; the two related structures)

Physical data models include .
No extractions found.

Other models include .
No extractions found.

A given database management system may provide one or more models.
0.783: (A given database management system; may provide; one or more models)

 The optimal structure depends on the natural organization of the application s data, and on the application s requirements, which include transaction rate , reliability, maintainability, scalability, and cost.
0.866: (The optimal structure; depends on; the natural organization of the application)

 Most database management systems are built around one particular data model, although it is possible for products to offer support for more than one model.
0.9: (Most database management systems; are built around; one particular data model)[enabler=although it is possible for products to offer support for more than one model]
0.678: (it; is possible for; products)
0.518: (it; is; possible)

Various physical data models can implement any given logical model.
0.783: (Various physical data models; can implement; any given logical model)

 Most database software will offer the user some level of control in tuning the physical implementation, since the choices that are made have a significant effect on performance.
0.854: (Most database software; will offer the user; some level of control)[enabler=since the choices that are made have a significant effect on performance]
0.679: (the choices that are made; have; a significant effect)
0.671: (Most database software; be some level of; control)

A model is not just a way of structuring data  it also defines a set of operations that can be performed on the data.
0.635: (it; also defines; a set of operations)
0.525: (A model; is just; not just a way structuring data)
0.491: (a set of operations; be also defines by; data)

 The relational model, for example, defines operations such as select and join.
No extractions found.

 Although these operations may not be explicit in a particular query language, they provide the foundation on which a query language is built.
0.857: (they; provide; the foundation on which a query language is built)[enabler=Although these operations may not be explicit in a particular query language]
0.698: (these operations; may not be explicit in; a particular query language)
0.655: (a query language; is built in; the foundation)
0.525: (these operations; may be; not be explicit)

The flat model consists of a single, two_dimensional array of data elements, where all members of a given column are assumed to be similar values, and all members of a row are assumed to be related to one another.
0.888: (The flat model; consists of; a single , two_dimensional array of data elements)
0.705: (all members of a given column; are assumed; similar values)
0.564: (all members of a given column; are assumed in; data elements)

 For instance, columns for name and password that might be used as a part of a system security database.
No extractions found.

 Each row would have the specific password associated with an individual user.
0.853: (Each row; would have; the specific password associated with an individual user)
0.741: (the specific password; be associated with; an individual user)

 Columns of the table often have a type associated with them, defining them as character data, date or time information, integers, or floating point numbers.
0.768: (Columns of the table; often have; a type associated with them)
0.73: (a type; be associated with; them)
0.694: (Columns of the table; often have a type associated with them defining them as; character data , date or time information , integers , or floating point numbers)
0.653: (them; be defining as; character data , date or time information , integers , or floating point numbers)
0.521: (Columns of the table; often have a type associated with them defining; them)

 This tabular format is a precursor to the relational model.
0.916: (This tabular format; is a precursor to; the relational model)
0.746: (This tabular format; is; a precursor)

These models were popular in the 1960s, 1970s, but nowadays can be found primarily in old legacy systems.
0.746: (These models; were popular in; the 1960s)
0.738: (These models; were; popular)

 They are characterized primarily by being navigational with strong connections between their logical and physical representations, and deficiencies in data independence.
No extractions found.

In a hierarchical model, data is organized into a tree_like structure, implying a single parent for each record.
0.914: (data; is organized into; a tree_like structure)
0.833: (data; is organized in; a hierarchical model)

 A sort field keeps sibling records in a particular order.
0.776: (A sort field; keeps sibling records in; a particular order)
0.713: (A sort field; keeps sibling; records)
0.674: (records; be sibling in; a particular order)

 Hierarchical structures were widely used in the early mainframe database management systems, such as the Information Management System by IBM, and now describe the structure of XML documents.
0.9: (Hierarchical structures; were widely used in; the early mainframe database management systems)
0.748: (Hierarchical structures; were widely used by; IBM)

 This structure allows one one_to_many relationship between two types of data.
0.807: (This structure; allows; one one_to_many relationship)

 This structure is very efficient to describe many relationships in the real world  recipes, table of contents, ordering of paragraphs verses, any nested and sorted information.
0.825: (This structure; is very; efficient)
0.7: (many relationships; be table of; contents)

This hierarchy is used as the physical order of records in storage.
0.948: (This hierarchy; is used as; the physical order of records)

 Record access is done by navigating downward through the data structure using pointers combined with sequential accessing.
0.793: (pointers; be combined with; sequential accessing)

 Because of this, the hierarchical structure is inefficient for certain database operations when a full path is not also included for each record.
0.914: (a full path; is not also included for; each record)
0.787: (the hierarchical structure; is inefficient for; certain database operations)[enabler=when a full path is not also included for each record]

 Such limitations have been compensated for in later IMS versions by additional logical hierarchies imposed on the base physical hierarchy.
0.705: (additional logical hierarchies; be imposed on; the base physical hierarchy)

The network model expands upon the hierarchical structure, allowing many_to_many relationships in a tree_like structure that allows multiple parents.
0.855: (The network model; expands upon; the hierarchical structure)
0.627: (The network model; expands allowing; many_to_many relationships)
0.62: (multiple parents; be allows by; a tree_like structure)

 It was most popular before being replaced by the relational model, and is defined by the CODASYL specification.
0.649: (It; was; popular)
0.602: (It; is defined by; the CODASYL specification)

The network model organizes data using two fundamental concepts, called records and sets.
No extractions found.

 Records contain fields .
0.784: (Records; contain; fields)

 Sets define one_to_many relationships between records  one owner, many members.
0.652: (Sets; define; one_to_many relationships)

 A record may be an owner in any number of sets, and a member in any number of sets.
0.923: (A record; may be an owner in; any number of sets)
0.838: (A record; may be; an owner in any number of sets , and a member)
0.612: (A record; may be a member in; any number of sets)
0.268: (A record; may be a member of; any number of sets)

A set consists of circular linked lists where one record type, the set owner or parent, appears once in each circle, and a second record type, the subordinate or child, may appear multiple times in each circle.
0.908: (a second record type; may appear multiple times in; each circle)
0.874: (A set; may appear multiple times in; each circle)
0.809: (one record type; appears once in; each circle)
0.772: (a second record type; may appear; multiple times)
0.758: (A set; consists may of; circular linked lists where one record type , the set owner or parent , appears once in each circle)
0.703: (A set; may appear; multiple times)
0.686: (a second record type; consists may of; circular linked lists where one record type , the set owner or parent , appears once in each circle)

 In this way a hierarchy may be established between any two record types, e.
0.894: (a hierarchy; may be established between; any two record types)
0.754: (a hierarchy; may be established in; this way)

g.
No extractions found.

, type A is the owner of B.
No extractions found.

 At the same time another set may be defined where B is the owner of A.
0.858: (B; is the owner of; A.)
0.754: (another set; may be defined at; the same time)
0.619: (B; is; the owner of A.)

 Thus all the sets comprise a general directed graph , or network construct.
No extractions found.

 Access to records is either sequential or by navigation in the circular linked lists.
0.754: (Access; is; sequential or by)

The network model is able to represent redundancy in data more efficiently than in the hierarchical model, and there can be more than one path from an ancestor node to a descendant.
0.857: (The network model; can be; able to represent redundancy in data more efficiently than in the hierarchical model , and there can be more than one path)
0.774: (The network model; can be than one path from; an ancestor node)
0.763: (The network model; is can; able to represent redundancy in data more efficiently than in the hierarchical model , and there can be more than one path)
0.599: (The network model; to represent more efficiently than in the hierarchical model; redundancy)

 The operations of the network model are navigational in style  a program maintains a current position, and navigates from one record to another by following the relationships in which the record participates.
0.798: (a program; maintains; a current position , and navigates)
0.797: (The operations of the network model; are navigational in; style)
0.492: (navigational; be The operations of; the network model)

 Records can also be located by supplying key values.
No extractions found.

Although it is not an essential feature of the model, network databases generally implement the set relationships by means of pointers that directly address the location of a record on disk.
0.798: (network databases; generally implement; the set relationships)[enabler=Although it is not an essential feature of the model]
0.794: (it; is not an essential feature of; the model)
0.775: (the location of a record; be directly address on; disk)
0.505: (it; is; not an essential feature of the model)

 This gives excellent retrieval performance, at the expense of operations such as database loading and reorganization.
No extractions found.

Popular DBMS products that utilized it were Cincom Systems  Total and Cullinet s IDMS.
0.6: (it; were; Cincom Systems Total and Cullinet)

 IDMS gained a considerable customer base  in the 1980s, it adopted the relational model and SQL in addition to its original tools and languages.
0.826: (it; adopted the relational model in; addition)
0.804: (the relational model and SQL; be adopted in; addition)
0.767: (it; adopted SQL in; addition)
0.75: (it; adopted; the relational model and SQL)
0.716: (IDMS; gained; a considerable customer base)
0.577: (it; adopted the relational model; addition)
0.423: (it; adopted SQL; addition)

Most object databases use the navigational concept to provide fast navigation across networks of objects, generally using object identifiers as  smart  pointers to related objects.
0.798: (databases; use; the navigational concept to provide fast navigation across networks of objects)
0.728: (fast navigation; to be provide across; networks of objects)
0.707: (object identifiers; be generally using as; smart pointers)
0.455: (databases; use the navigational concept to provide fast navigation across networks of objects generally using object identifiers as; smart pointers)
0.361: (databases; use the navigational concept to provide fast navigation across networks of objects generally using; object identifiers)

 Objectivity DB, for instance, implements named one_to_one, one_to_many, many_to_one, and many_to_many named relationships that can cross databases.
0.874: (Objectivity DB; implements named for; instance)

 Many object databases also support SQL, combining the strengths of both models.
0.736: (Many object databases; also support; SQL)
0.648: (Many object databases; also support SQL combining; the strengths of both models)

In an inverted file or inverted index, the contents of the data are used as keys in a lookup table, and the values in the table are pointers to the location of each instance of a given content item.
0.943: (the values; are pointers to; the location of each instance of a given content item)
0.925: (the contents of the data; are used as; keys)
0.754: (the contents of the data; are used in; an inverted file or inverted index)
0.351: (pointers; be the values in; the table)

 This is also the logical structure of contemporary database indexes, which might only use the contents from a particular columns in the lookup table.
0.739: (the contents; might be only use from; a particular columns)

 The inverted file data model can put indexes in a second set of files next to existing flat database files, in order to efficiently directly access needed records in these files.
0.855: (The inverted file data model; can put indexes in; a second set of files)
0.808: (The inverted file data model; can put; indexes)
0.758: (The inverted file data model; can put indexes in; order)
0.728: (indexes; can be put in; a second set of files)
0.587: (indexes; can be put in; order)
0.347: (second; set of; files)

Notable for using this data model is the ADABAS DBMS of Software AG, introduced in 1970.
0.809: (Notable; is the ADABAS DBMS of; Software AG)
0.764: (Notable; is; the ADABAS DBMS of Software AG)
0.67: (the ADABAS DBMS of Software AG; be introduced in; 1970)

 ADABAS has gained considerable customer base and exists and supported until today.
0.566: (ADABAS; has supported until; today)
0.565: (ADABAS; has gained; considerable customer base)

 In the 1980s it has adopted the relational model and SQL in addition to its original tools and languages.
0.723: (it; has adopted the relational model in; addition)
0.694: (it; has adopted; the relational model and SQL)
0.643: (it; has adopted SQL in; addition)
0.453: (it; has adopted the relational model in; 1980s)
0.364: (it; has adopted SQL in; 1980s)

Document_oriented database Clusterpoint uses inverted indexing model to provide fast full_text search for XML or JSON data objects and to deliver scale out ability for Big data.
0.827: (Document_oriented database Clusterpoint; uses inverted; indexing model to provide fast full_text search for XML or JSON data objects and to deliver scale out ability for Big data)
0.587: (scale; to to be deliver out; ability)

 Clusterpoint has built_in computing engine that allows execution of a combined SQL query, free text search and JavaScript code right inside the distributed database.
0.653: (Clusterpoint; has built in computing; engine that allows execution of a combined SQL query , free text search and JavaScript code right inside the distributed database)
0.564: (execution of a combined SQL query , free text search and JavaScript code right; be allows by; engine)

 Both data and inverted index through scalable sharding and replication can be distributed across a large number of servers to support billions of data objects in the same Clusterpoint database.
0.948: (Both data and inverted index; can be distributed across; a large number of servers)
0.645: (billions of data objects; to be support in; the same Clusterpoint database)

 Clusterpoint query language JS SQL blends together SQL and JavaScript syntax with full text search, where inverted index is being used to deliver milliseconds_range text search performance and relevant pagination in web and mobile applications.
0.778: (inverted index; to deliver; milliseconds_range text search performance and relevant pagination)
0.434: (inverted index; is being used in; full text search)

 In Clusterpoint database architecture inverted index also supports programmable relevance ranking enabling to customize search output without extra coding efforts.
0.837: (inverted index; also supports; programmable relevance ranking enabling to customize search output without extra coding efforts)
0.708: (search output; to be customize without; extra coding efforts)
0.303: (inverted index; also supports programmable relevance ranking enabling to customize search output without extra coding efforts in; Clusterpoint database architecture)

 Similarly to relational databases, Clusterpoint supports distributed ACID_compliant database transactions for strong document database consistency, where inverted index data is immediately updated along any XML or JSON document content updates.
0.913: (inverted index data; is immediately updated along; any XML or JSON document content updates)
0.564: (inverted index data; is immediately updated in; strong document database consistency)

 Inverted index is also used to support near real_time Big data reporting, analytics, drill_down and data mining over REST API in Clusterpoint database.
0.848: (Inverted index; to support near; real_time Big data reporting , analytics , drill_down and data mining)

The relational model was introduced by E.
0.905: (The relational model; was introduced by; E.)

F.
No extractions found.

 Codd in 1970 as a way to make database management systems more independent of any particular application.
0.631: (database management systems; be independent of; any particular application)

 It is a mathematical model defined in terms of predicate logic and set theory, and systems implementing it have been used by mainframe, midrange and microcomputer systems.
0.903: (a mathematical model; defined in; terms of predicate logic)
0.869: (it; have been used by; mainframe , midrange and microcomputer systems)
0.554: (It; is; a mathematical model)

The products that are generally referred to as relational databases in fact implement a model that is only an approximation to the mathematical model defined by Codd.
0.874: (a model; is only an approximation to; the mathematical model defined by Codd)
0.73: (relational databases; implement; a model that is only an approximation to the mathematical model)
0.669: (the mathematical model; be defined by; Codd)

 Three key terms are used extensively in relational database models  relations, attributes, and domains.
0.9: (Three key terms; are used extensively in; relational database models relations)

 A relation is a table with columns and rows.
0.916: (A relation; is a table with; columns and rows)
0.746: (A relation; is; a table)

 The named columns of the relation are called attributes, and the domain is the set of values the attributes are allowed to take.
No extractions found.

The basic data structure of the relational model is the table, where information about a particular entity is represented in rows and columns.
0.914: (information; is represented in; rows and columns)
0.802: (The basic data structure of the relational model; is; the table where information about a particular entity is represented in rows and columns)
0.492: (the table where information about a particular entity is represented in rows and columns; be The basic data structure of; the relational model)

 Thus, the  relation  in  relational database  refers to the various tables in the database  a relation is a set of tuples.
0.926: (a relation; is a set of; tuples)
0.874: (the relation; Thus refers in; the database a relation is a set of tuples)
0.834: (the relation; Thus refers to; the various tables)
0.768: (a relation; is; a set of tuples)

 The columns enumerate the various attributes of the entity , and a row is an actual instance of the entity that is represented by the relation.
0.953: (a row; is an actual instance of; the entity that is represented by the relation)
0.915: (The columns; is an actual instance of; the entity that is represented by the relation)
0.784: (The columns; enumerate; the various attributes of the entity)
0.724: (a row; is; an actual instance of the entity)
0.626: (a row; enumerate; the various attributes of the entity)
0.584: (The columns; is; an actual instance of the entity)

 As a result, each tuple of the employee table represents various attributes of a single employee.
0.825: (each tuple of the employee table; represents; various attributes of a single employee)
0.613: (each tuple of the employee table; represents various attributes of a single employee as; a result)

All relations in a relational database have to adhere to some basic rules to qualify as relations.
0.85: (All relations; have to adhere to; some basic rules)

 First, the ordering of columns is immaterial in a table.
0.785: (the ordering of columns; First is immaterial in; a table)
0.733: (the ordering of columns; First is; immaterial)
0.399: (immaterial; be the ordering of; columns)

 Second, there can t be identical tuples or rows in a table.
No extractions found.

 And third, each tuple will contain a single value for each of its attributes.
0.798: (each tuple; will contain; a single value)

A relational database contains multiple tables, each similar to the one in the  flat  database model.
0.74: (A relational database; contains; multiple tables)

 One of the strengths of the relational model is that, in principle, any value occurring in two different records , implies a relationship among those two records.
0.833: (any value occurring in two different records; implies; a relationship)
0.729: (any value; occurring in; two different records)
0.667: (any value occurring in two different records; implies a relationship among those two records in; principle)

 Yet, in order to enforce explicit integrity constraints, relationships between records in tables can also be defined explicitly, by identifying or non_identifying parent_child relationships characterized by assigning cardinality 1 M, M M .
No extractions found.

 Tables can also have a designated single attribute or a set of attributes that can act as a  key , which can be used to uniquely identify each tuple in the table.
0.799: (Tables; can also have; a designated single attribute or a set of attributes)
0.645: (each tuple; to be uniquely identify in; the table)

A key that can be used to uniquely identify a row in a table is called a primary key.
0.707: (A key that can be used to uniquely identify a row in a table; is called; a primary key)
0.59: (a row; to be uniquely identify in; a table)

 Keys are commonly used to join or combine data from two or more tables.
0.778: (data; be combine from; two or more tables)

 For example, an Employee table may contain a column named Location which contains a value that matches the key of a Location table.
0.757: (an Employee table; may contain; a column named Location)
0.564: (a value that matches the key of a Location table; be contains by; Location)
0.564: (the key of a Location table; be matches by; a value)
0.2: (a column named Location; may be contain for; example)
0.165: (an Employee table; may contain a column named Location which contains a value that matches the key of a Location table for; example)

 Keys are also critical in the creation of indexes, which facilitate fast retrieval of data from large tables.
0.857: (Keys; are also critical in; the creation of indexes)

 Any column can be a key, or multiple columns can be grouped together into a compound key.
0.914: (a key , or multiple columns; can be grouped together into; a compound key)
0.717: (Any column; can be; a key , or multiple columns)

 It is not necessary to define all the keys in advance  a column can be used as a key even if it was not originally intended to be one.
0.894: (a column; can be used as; a key)
0.655: (a column; can be used in; all the keys)
0.646: (It; to define; all the keys a column can be used as a key even if it was not originally intended to be one)
0.577: (It; is; not necessary)
0.039: (it; even was not originally intended; one)

A key that has an external, real_world meaning is sometimes called a  natural  key.
0.752: (real_world meaning; is sometimes called; a natural key)

 If no natural key is suitable , an arbitrary or surrogate key can be assigned .
0.071: (no natural key; is; suitable)

 In practice, most databases have both generated and natural keys, because generated keys can be used internally to create links between rows that cannot break, while natural keys can be used, less reliably, for searches and for integration with other databases.
0.72: (keys; to create; links)
0.497: (most databases; have in; practice)

  For example, records in two independently developed databases could be matched up by social security number, except when the social security numbers are incorrect, missing, or have changed.
0.914: (databases; could be matched up by; social security number)
0.39: (records; independently developed for; example)

 .
No extractions found.

The most common query language used with the relational model is the Structured Query Language .
0.763: (The most common query language; be used with; the relational model)
0.703: (The most common query language used with the relational model; is; the Structured Query Language)

The dimensional model is a specialized adaptation of the relational model used to represent data in data warehouses in a way that data can be easily summarized using online analytical processing, or OLAP queries.
0.888: (The dimensional model; is a specialized adaptation of; the relational model)
0.88: (a specialized adaptation of the relational model; used to represent data in; data warehouses)
0.798: (a specialized adaptation of the relational model; to represent data in; data warehouses)
0.784: (a specialized adaptation of the relational model; used to represent; data)
0.726: (a specialized adaptation of the relational model; to represent; data)
0.679: (data; to be represent in; data warehouses)
0.676: (The dimensional model; is; a specialized adaptation of the relational model)

 In the dimensional model, a database schema consists of a single large table of facts that are described using dimensions and measures.
0.882: (a database schema; consists of; a single large table of facts)
0.613: (a database schema; consists in; the dimensional model)

 A dimension provides the context of a fact and is used in queries to group related facts together.
0.882: (A dimension; is used in; queries to group related facts together)
0.799: (A dimension; provides; the context of a fact)

 Dimensions tend to be discrete and are often hierarchical  for example, the location might include the building, state, and country.
0.729: (the location; might include; the building)
0.45: (Dimensions; are often hierarchical for; example)

 A measure is a quantity describing the fact, such as revenue.
0.802: (A measure; is; a quantity describing the fact , such as revenue)

 It is important that measures can be meaningfully aggregated for example, the revenue from different locations can be added together.
0.595: (measures; can be meaningfully aggregated for; example)
0.577: (It; is; important)

In an OLAP query, dimensions are chosen and the facts are grouped and aggregated together to create a summary.
0.754: (dimensions; are chosen in; an OLAP query)
0.754: (the facts; are chosen in; an OLAP query)

The dimensional model is often implemented on top of the relational model using a star schema, consisting of one highly normalized table containing the facts, and surrounding denormalized tables containing each dimension.
0.94: (The dimensional model; is often implemented on; top of the relational model)

 An alternative physical implementation, called a snowflake schema, normalizes multi_level hierarchies within a dimension into multiple tables.
0.816: (An alternative physical implementation; called; a snowflake schema)

A data warehouse can contain multiple dimensional schemas that share dimension tables, allowing them to be used together.
0.841: (A data warehouse; can contain; multiple dimensional schemas)

 Coming up with a standard set of dimensions is an important part of dimensional modeling.
0.611: (important; is part of; dimensional modeling)
0.473: (standard; set of; dimensions)

Its high performance has made the dimensional model the most popular database structure for OLAP.
0.726: (the dimensional model; be the most popular database structure for; OLAP.)

Products offering a more general data model than the relational model are sometimes classified as post_relational.
0.862: (Products; are sometimes classified as; post_relational)

 Alternate terms include  hybrid database ,  Object_enhanced RDBMS  and others.
0.632: (terms; include; hybrid database , Object_enhanced RDBMS and others)

 The data model in such products incorporates relations but is not constrained by E.
0.74: (The data model; incorporates; relations)

F.
No extractions found.

 Codd s Information Principle, which requires that.
0.504: (Codd; s; Information Principle)

all information in the database must be cast explicitly in terms of values in relations and in no other way.
0.948: (all information; must be cast explicitly in; terms of values)

Some of these extensions to the relational model integrate concepts from technologies that pre_date the relational model.
0.802: (concepts; be integrate from; technologies that pre_date the relational model)

 For example, they allow representation of a directed graph with trees on the nodes.
0.89: (they; allow; representation of a directed graph)
0.201: (they; allow representation of a directed graph with trees on the nodes for; example)

 The German company sones implements this concept in its GraphDB.
0.808: (The German company sones; implements this concept in; its GraphDB.)
0.807: (The German company sones; implements; this concept)

Some post_relational products extend relational systems with non_relational features.
0.83: (Some post_relational products; extend relational systems with; non_relational features)
0.793: (Some post_relational products; extend; relational systems)

 Others arrived in much the same place by adding relational features to pre_relational systems.
0.837: (Others; arrived; the same place)
0.789: (Others; arrived the same place in; much)
0.674: (relational features; be adding to; pre_relational systems)
0.572: (the same place; be arrived in; much)
0.455: (Others; arrived the same place; much)

 Paradoxically, this allows products that are historically pre_relational, such as PICK and MUMPS, to make a plausible claim to be post_relational.
0.751: (a plausible claim; to be; post_relational)

The resource space model is a non_relational data model based on multi_dimensional classification.
0.802: (The resource space model; is; a non_relational data model based on multi_dimensional classification)
0.793: (a non_relational data model; be based on; multi_dimensional classification)
0.723: (The resource space model; is a non relational data model on; multi_dimensional classification)

Graph databases allow even more general structure than a network database  any node may be connected to any other node.
0.823: (any node; may be connected to; any other node)
0.783: (Graph databases; allow; general structure)

Multivalue databases are  lumpy  data, in that they can store exactly the same way as relational databases, but they also permit a level of depth which the relational model can only approximate using sub_tables.
0.781: (they; also permit; a level of depth)
0.776: (they; can store exactly the same way as; relational databases)
0.775: (they; can store; the same way)
0.658: (the same way; can be store as; relational databases)

 This is nearly identical to the way XML expresses data, where a given field attribute can have multiple right answers at the same time.
0.834: (a given field attribute; can have multiple right answers at; the same time)
0.798: (a given field attribute; can have; multiple right answers)
0.708: (multiple right answers; can be have at; the same time)

 Multivalue can be thought of as a compressed form of XML.
0.305: (compressed; be form of; XML.)

An example is an invoice, which in either multivalue or relational data could be seen as Invoice Header Table _ one entry per invoice, and Invoice Detail Table _ one entry per line item.
0.776: (An example; is; an invoice , which in either multivalue or relational data could be seen as Invoice Header Table _ one entry per invoice , and Invoice Detail Table)
0.497: (An example; be Invoice Detail Table  ; one entry)

 In the multivalue model, we have the option of storing the data as on table, with an embedded table to represent the detail  Invoice Table _ one entry per invoice, no other tables needed.
0.711: (we; have; the option storing the data as on table)
0.56: (Invoice Table; be one entry per; invoice)
0.429: (we; have the option of storing the data as on table with; an embedded table)
0.193: (we; have the option of storing the data as on table to represent; the detail)
0.193: (we; have the option of storing the data as on table in; the multivalue model)

The advantage is that the atomicity of the Invoice and the Invoice are one_to_one.
0.384: (one_to_one; be the atomicity of; the Invoice and the Invoice)

 This also results in fewer reads, less referential integrity issues, and a dramatic decrease in the hardware needed to support a given transaction volume.
No extractions found.

In the 1990s, the object_oriented programming paradigm was applied to database technology, creating a new database model known as object databases.
0.914: (the object_oriented programming paradigm; was applied to; database technology)
0.829: (a new database model; be known as; object databases)
0.795: (the object_oriented programming paradigm; was applied in; 1990s)

 This aims to avoid the object_relational impedance mismatch _ the overhead of converting information between its representation in the database and its representation in the application program .
0.86: (the object_relational impedance mismatch;  ; the overhead of converting information)

 Even further, the type system used in a particular application can be defined directly in the database, allowing the database to enforce the same data integrity invariants.
0.893: (the type system used in a particular application; Even further can be defined directly in; the database)
0.763: (the database; to enforce; the same data integrity invariants)
0.742: (the type system; be used in; a particular application)

 Object databases also introduce the key ideas of object programming, such as encapsulation and polymorphism, into the world of databases.
0.784: (Object databases; also introduce; the key ideas of object programming)
0.642: (Object databases; also introduce the key ideas of object programming , such as encapsulation and polymorphism into; the world of databases)

A variety of these ways have been triedfor storing objects in a database.
0.745: (A variety of these ways; have been triedfor storing objects in; a database)
0.697: (A variety of these ways; have been triedfor storing; objects)
0.674: (objects; be storing in; a database)

 Some products have approached the problem from the application programming end, by making the objects manipulated by the program persistent.
0.796: (Some products; have approached the problem from; the application programming end)
0.795: (Some products; have approached; the problem)
0.793: (the objects; be manipulated by; the program persistent)

 This typically requires the addition of some kind of query language, since conventional programming languages do not have the ability to find objects based on their information content.
0.734: (objects; be based on; their information content)
0.73: (conventional programming languages; do not have; the ability to find objects)

 Others have attacked the problem from the database end, by defining an object_oriented data model for the database, and defining a database programming language that allows full programming capabilities as well as traditional query facilities.
0.796: (Others; have attacked the problem from; the database end)
0.795: (Others; have attacked; the problem)
0.564: (full programming capabilities; be allows by; a database programming language)

Object databases suffered because of a lack of standardization  although standards were defined by ODMG, they were never implemented well enough to ensure interoperability between products.
0.931: (Object databases; suffered because of; a lack of standardization although standards were defined by ODMG , they were never implemented well enough to ensure interoperability between products)
0.817: (standards; were defined by; ODMG)

 Nevertheless, object databases have been used successfully in many applications  usually specialized applications such as engineering databases or molecular biology databases rather than mainstream commercial data processing.
0.609: (many applications; usually specialized; applications)

 However, object database ideas were picked up by the relational vendors and influenced extensions made to these products and indeed to the SQL language.
0.869: (object database ideas; However were picked up by; the relational vendors)

An alternative to translating between objects and relational databases is to use an object_relational mapping library.
0.782: (An alternative; is to use; an object_relational mapping library)

.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

Common logical data models for databases include .
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

A Database model defines the logical design of data.
0.833: (A Database model; defines; the logical design of data)

 The model describes the relationships between different parts of the data.
0.807: (The model; describes; the relationships)
0.303: (different; be parts of; the data)

 Historically, in database design, three models are commonly used.
0.764: (three models; Historically are commonly used in; database design)

 They are,.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

     .
No extractions found.

High_level Conceptual Data models.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

Database systems can be based on different data models or database models respectively.
0.9: (Database systems; can be based on; different data models or database models)

 A data model is a collection of concepts and rules for the description of the structure of the database.
0.939: (A data model; is a collection of; concepts and rules)
0.922: (A data model; is a collection of concepts for; the description of the structure of the database)
0.736: (A data model; is; a collection of concepts)

 Structure of the database means the data types, the constraints and the relationships for the description or storage of data respectively.
0.74: (Structure of the database; means; the data types)

 The most often used data models are .
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

Data models define how the logical structure of a database is modeled.
No extractions found.

 Data Models are fundamental entities to introduce abstraction in a DBMS.
0.691: (abstraction; to be introduce in; a DBMS.)

 Data models define how data is connected to each other and how they are processed and stored inside the system.
0.92: (they; be stored inside; the system)[attrib=Data models define]
0.894: (data; is connected to; each other)[attrib=Data models define]
0.852: (they; is connected to; each other)[attrib=Data models define]
0.807: (data; be stored inside; the system)[attrib=Data models define]

Entity   An entity in an ER Model is a real_world entity having properties called attributes.
0.718: (Entity; is; a real_world entity having properties)
0.561: (Entity; be An entity in; an ER Model)

 Every attribute is defined by its set of values called domain.
No extractions found.

 For example, in a school database, a student is considered as an entity.
0.914: (a student; is considered as; an entity)
0.754: (a student; is considered in; a school database)
0.46: (a student; is considered for; example)

 Student has various attributes like name, age, class, etc.
0.768: (Student; has; various attributes)
0.343: (age; be various attributes like; name)

                        .
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

                            .
No extractions found.

                .
No extractions found.

 .
No extractions found.

In order to understand the hierarchical data model better, let us take the example of the sample database consisting of supplier, parts and shipments.
0.747: (us; take; the example of the sample database)
0.723: (the sample database; consisting of; supplier , parts and shipments)
0.676: (us; be the example of; the sample database consisting of supplier , parts and shipments)

 The record structure and some sample records for supplier, parts and shipments elements are as given in following tables.
No extractions found.

                              .
No extractions found.

                                .
No extractions found.

                                .
No extractions found.

 .
No extractions found.

 .
No extractions found.

 .
No extractions found.

 .
No extractions found.

 .
No extractions found.

 .
No extractions found.

 .
No extractions found.

 .
No extractions found.

 .
No extractions found.

