In computer science, message passing sends a message to a process and relies on the process and the supporting infrastructure to select and invoke the actual code to run.
0.814: (message passing; relies on; the process)
0.814: (message passing; sends a message to; a process)
0.757: (message passing; sends; a message)
0.613: (message passing; sends a message in; computer science)

 Message passing differs from conventional programming where a process, subroutine, or function is directly invoked by name.
0.914: (a process , subroutine , or function; is directly invoked by; name)
0.821: (Message; passing differs from; conventional programming where a process , subroutine , or function is directly invoked by name)
0.769: (differs; be passing from; conventional programming where a process , subroutine , or function is directly invoked by name)
0.564: (a process , subroutine , or function; is directly invoked in; conventional programming)

 Message passing is key to some models of concurrency and object_oriented programming.
0.845: (Message passing; is key to; some models of concurrency)
0.746: (Message passing; is; key)
0.703: (Message passing; object oriented; programming)

.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

Message Passing In Java When a thread sends a message to another thread.
0.847: (a thread; sends a message to; another thread)
0.757: (a thread; sends; a message)

 Used for thread communication and synchronization in environments where the threads do not have shared memory Hence the threads cannot share semaphores or monitors and cannot use shared variables to communicate.
0.745: (the threads; Hence shared; variables to communicate)
0.714: (the threads; do not have shared; memory)

 Message passing can still be used, of course, in a shared memory platform.
No extractions found.

 Messages are sent through a channel with an operation like sendand received from a channel with an operation like receive.
0.929: (Messages; are sent through; a channel)
0.736: (sendand; be received from; a channel)

 Messages can be passed synchronously, meaning the sender blocks until the received does a receive and the receiver blocks until the sender does a send.
No extractions found.

 Since the sender and receiver are at specific known points in their code at a known specific instant of time, synchronous message passing is also called a simple rendezvous with a one_way flow of information from the sender to the receiver.
0.704: (a simple rendezvous; is also called with; a one_way flow of information)[enabler=the sender and receiver are at specific known points in their code at a known specific instant of time , synchronous message passing]

 An example is a chess game agent.
0.716: (An example; is; a chess game agent)

 The agents can process messages synchronously, since they ll be handshaking throughout the entire game.
0.641: (they; ll be handshaking throughout; the entire game)
0.606: (The agents; can process synchronously; messages)[enabler=since they ll be handshaking throughout the entire game]

 In asynchronous message passing, the sender does not block.
0.591: (the sender; does not block in; asynchronous message passing)

 If there is not a receiver waiting to receive the message, the message is queued or buffered.
0.676: (the message; is queued in; a receiver waiting to receive the message)

 The receiver still blocks if there is no queued or buffered message when a receive is executed.
No extractions found.

When a thread sends a message to another thread.
0.847: (a thread; sends a message to; another thread)
0.757: (a thread; sends; a message)

Message passing is a type of communication between processes or objects in computer science.
0.939: (Message passing; is a type of; communication)
0.927: (Message passing; is a type of communication between; processes or objects)
0.804: (Message passing; is; a type of communication)

 In this model, processes or objects can send and receive messages to other processes or objects.
0.708: (messages; can be receive to; other processes or objects)

Message passing can be synchronous or asynchronous.
0.762: (Message passing; can be; synchronous or asynchronous)

 Synchronous message passing systems require the sender and receiver to wait for each other while transferring the message.
0.854: (the sender and receiver; to wait for; each other)[enabler=while transferring the message]

 In asynchronous communication the sender and receiver do not wait for each other and can carry on their own computations while transfer of messages is being done.
0.681: (the sender and receiver; do not wait can for; each other)
0.605: (the sender and receiver; do can carry on; their own computations)[enabler=while transfer of messages is being done]

My questions are.
No extractions found.

 What is message passing  .
No extractions found.

 Is there any support for this  message passing  in C  , C  or Java .
No extractions found.

Is there any support for this  message passing  in C  , C  or Java .
No extractions found.

An example in Groovy that demonstrates the power of this concept.
0.734: (the power of this concept; be demonstrates by; An example)

