In signal processing  a window function  also known as an apodization function or tapering function  is a mathematical function that is zero valued outside of some chosen interval.
0.752: (a window function; be also known as; an apodization function or tapering function)
0.444: (a mathematical function that is zero; is in; signal processing)

 For instance  a function that is constant inside the interval and zero elsewhere is called a rectangular window  which describes the shape of its graphical representation.
0.657: (the shape of its graphical representation; be describes by; a rectangular window)

 When another function or waveform data sequence is multiplied by a window function  the product is also zero valued outside the interval  all that is left is the part where they overlap  the  view through the window .
0.894: (another function or waveform data sequence; is multiplied by; a window function the product is also zero)
0.834: (they; overlap; the view)
0.815: (they; overlap the view through; the window)
0.769: (the product; is also; zero valued outside the interval)
0.752: (zero; be valued outside; the interval)

In typical applications  the window functions used are non negative  smooth   bell shaped  curves.
0.722: (typical applications the window functions used are non negative smooth bell; shaped; curves)

 Rectangle  triangle  and other functions can also be used.
No extractions found.

 A more general definition of window functions does not require them to be identically zero outside an interval  as long as the product of the window multiplied by its argument is square integrable  and  more specifically  that the function goes sufficiently rapidly toward zero.
0.775: (the function; goes sufficiently rapidly toward; zero)
0.751: (the product of the window; multiplied by; its argument)
0.365: (them; to be identically as long as the product the window multiplied its argument is square integrable more specifically that the function goes sufficiently rapidly zero; zero)

.
No extractions found.

.
No extractions found.

Applications of window functions include spectral analysis modification resynthesis  the design of finite impulse response filters  as well as beamforming and antenna design.
0.789: (spectral analysis modification; resynthesis; the design of finite impulse response filters)

The Fourier transform of the function cos  t is zero  except at frequency   .
0.829: (The Fourier; transform of; the function cos t)

 However  many other functions and waveforms do not have convenient closed form transforms.
0.773: (many other functions and waveforms; do not have; convenient closed form transforms)

 Alternatively  one might be interested in their spectral content only during a certain time period.
0.921: (one; Alternatively might be interested during; a certain time period)
0.876: (one; Alternatively might be interested in; their spectral content)

In either case  the Fourier transform  or a similar transform  can be applied on one or more finite intervals of the waveform.
0.504: (the Fourier; transform in; either case)

 In general  the transform is applied to the product of the waveform and a window function.
No extractions found.

 Any window  including rectangular  affects the spectral estimate computed by this method.
0.853: (Any window; affects; the spectral estimate computed by this method)
0.793: (the spectral estimate; be computed by; this method)

Windowing of a simple waveform like cos  t causes its Fourier transform to develop non zero values  commonly called spectral leakage  at frequencies other than  .
0.884: (its Fourier; transform to develop; non zero values commonly called spectral leakage at frequencies other than)
0.817: (non zero values; be commonly called spectral leakage at; frequencies other)

 The leakage tends to be worst  highest  near   and least at frequencies farthest from  .
No extractions found.

If the waveform under analysis comprises two sinusoids of different frequencies  leakage can interfere with the ability to distinguish them spectrally.
0.834: (two sinusoids of different frequencies leakage; can interfere with; the ability to distinguish them spectrally)

 If their frequencies are dissimilar and one component is weaker  then leakage from the stronger component can obscure the weaker one s presence.
No extractions found.

 But if the frequencies are similar  leakage can render them unresolvable even when the sinusoids are of equal strength.
0.693: (the sinusoids; even are of; equal strength)

 The rectangular window has excellent resolution characteristics for sinusoids of comparable strength  but it is a poor choice for sinusoids of disparate amplitudes.
0.899: (it; is a poor choice for; sinusoids of disparate amplitudes)
0.768: (The rectangular window; has; excellent resolution characteristics)
0.632: (it; is; a poor choice)

 This characteristic is sometimes described as low dynamic range.
0.919: (This characteristic; is sometimes described as; low dynamic range)

At the other extreme of dynamic range are the windows with the poorest resolution and sensitivity  which is the ability to reveal relatively weak sinusoids in the presence of additive random noise.
0.772: (weak sinusoids; to be reveal in; the presence of additive random noise)
0.647: (the windows; are at; the other extreme of dynamic range)

 That is because the noise produces a stronger response with high dynamic range windows than with high resolution windows.
0.801: (the noise; produces a stronger response with; high dynamic range windows)
0.711: (the noise; produces; a stronger response)

 Therefore  high dynamic range windows are most often justified in wideband applications  where the spectrum being analyzed is expected to contain many different components of various amplitudes.
0.931: (high dynamic range windows; Therefore are most often justified in; wideband applications where the spectrum being analyzed is expected to contain many different components of various amplitudes)
0.797: (the spectrum being analyzed; to contain; many different components of various amplitudes)
0.549: (the spectrum being analyzed; is expected in; wideband applications)
0.41: (different; be components of; various amplitudes)
0.41: (many; be different components of; various amplitudes)

In between the extremes are moderate windows  such as Hamming and Hann.
No extractions found.

 They are commonly used in narrowband applications  such as the spectrum of a telephone channel.
0.926: (They; are commonly used in; narrowband applications)

 In summary  spectral analysis involves a trade off between resolving comparable strength components with similar frequencies and resolving disparate strength components with dissimilar frequencies.
0.674: (disparate strength components; be resolving with; dissimilar frequencies)
0.622: (comparable strength components; be resolving with; similar frequencies)

 That trade off occurs when the window function is chosen.
No extractions found.

When the input waveform is time sampled  instead of continuous  the analysis is usually done by applying a window function and then a discrete Fourier transform  DFT .
0.782: (the input waveform; is; time sampled instead of continuous the analysis is usually done by applying a window function and then a discrete Fourier transform DFT)
0.742: (a discrete Fourier; transform; DFT)

 But the DFT provides only a sparse sampling of the actual discrete time Fourier transform  DTFT  spectrum.
0.789: (Fourier; transform; DTFT spectrum)
0.611: (the DFT; provides; a sparse sampling of the actual discrete time)

 Figure 1 shows a portion of the DTFT for a rectangularly windowed sinusoid.
0.812: (Figure 1; shows; a portion of the DTFT)

 The actual frequency of the sinusoid is indicated as  0  on the horizontal axis.
0.928: (The actual frequency of the sinusoid; is indicated as; 0)
0.898: (The actual frequency of the sinusoid; is indicated on; the horizontal axis)

 Everything else is leakage  exaggerated by the use of a logarithmic presentation.
0.842: (leakage; be exaggerated by; the use of a logarithmic presentation)
0.792: (Everything else; is; leakage exaggerated by the use of a logarithmic presentation)

 The unit of frequency is  DFT bins   that is  the integer values on the frequency axis correspond to the frequencies sampled by the DFT.
0.688: (the frequencies; be sampled by; the DFT.)
0.648: (The unit of frequency; is; DFT bins)
0.625: (DFT bins; is the integer values to; the frequencies sampled by the DFT.)
0.608: (DFT bins; is the integer values on; the frequency axis correspond)
0.289: (DFT bins; be The unit of; frequency)

 So the figure depicts a case where the actual frequency of the sinusoid coincides with a DFT sample  and the maximum value of the spectrum is accurately measured by that sample.
0.914: (a case where the actual frequency of the sinusoid coincides with a DFT sample and the maximum value of the spectrum; is accurately measured by; that sample)
0.859: (the actual frequency of the sinusoid; coincides with; a DFT sample and the maximum value of the spectrum)

 When it misses the maximum value by some amount  up to   bin   the measurement error is referred to as scalloping loss  inspired by the shape of the peak .
0.8: (it; misses the maximum value by; some amount)
0.71: (it; misses; the maximum value)
0.704: (loss; be inspired by; the shape of the peak)

 For a known frequency  such as a musical note or a sinusoidal test signal  matching the frequency to a DFT bin can be prearranged by choices of a sampling rate and a window length that results in an integer number of cycles within the window.
0.551: (the frequency; be matching to; a DFT bin)
0.499: (a musical note or a sinusoidal test signal; matching the frequency to; a DFT bin)

The concepts of resolution and dynamic range tend to be somewhat subjective  depending on what the user is actually trying to do.
No extractions found.

 But they also tend to be highly correlated with the total leakage  which is quantifiable.
No extractions found.

 It is usually expressed as an equivalent bandwidth  B.
0.848: (It; is usually expressed as; an equivalent bandwidth)

 It can be thought of as redistributing the DTFT into a rectangular shape with height equal to the spectral maximum and width B.
0.431: (the DTFT; be redistributing into; a rectangular shape)

 The more the leakage  the greater the bandwidth.
No extractions found.

 It is sometimes called noise equivalent bandwidth or equivalent noise bandwidth  because it is proportional to the average power that will be registered by each DFT bin when the input signal contains a random noise component  or is just random noise .
0.729: (the input signal; contains; a random noise component)
0.7: (It; is sometimes called; noise equivalent bandwidth or equivalent noise bandwidth)[enabler=because it is proportional to the average power that will be registered by each DFT bin when the input signal contains a random noise component]
0.697: (it; is proportional to; the average power that will be registered by each DFT bin when the input signal contains a random noise component)
0.518: (it; is; proportional)

 A graph of the power spectrum  averaged over time  typically reveals a flat noise floor  caused by this effect.
0.877: (A graph of the power spectrum; averaged over; time)
0.793: (a flat noise floor; be caused by; this effect)

 The height of the noise floor is proportional to B.
0.807: (The height of the noise floor; is proportional to; B.)
0.746: (The height of the noise floor; is; proportional)
0.492: (proportional; be The height of; the noise floor)

 So two different window functions can produce different noise floors.
0.727: (two different window functions; So can produce; different noise floors)

In signal processing  operations are chosen to improve some aspect of quality of a signal by exploiting the differences between the signal and the corrupting influences.
No extractions found.

 When the signal is a sinusoid corrupted by additive random noise  spectral analysis distributes the signal and noise components differently  often making it easier to detect the signal s presence or measure certain characteristics  such as amplitude and frequency.
0.787: (the signal; is a sinusoid corrupted by; additive random noise spectral analysis)
0.735: (the signal; is; a sinusoid corrupted)
0.626: (it; to detect; the signal)

 Effectively  the signal to noise ratio  SNR  is improved by distributing the noise uniformly  while concentrating most of the sinusoid s energy around one frequency.
No extractions found.

 Processing gain is a term often used to describe an SNR improvement.
0.806: (a term; often used to describe; an SNR improvement)
0.752: (a term; to describe; an SNR improvement)
0.653: (Processing gain; is; a term)

 The processing gain of spectral analysis depends on the window function  both its noise bandwidth  B  and its potential scalloping loss.
0.823: (The processing gain of spectral analysis; depends on; the window function)

 These effects partially offset  because windows with the least scalloping naturally have the most leakage.
No extractions found.

The figure at right depicts the effects of three different window functions on the same data set  comprising two equal strength sinusoids in additive noise.
0.854: (The figure; depicts; the effects of three different window functions)

 The frequencies of the sinusoids are chosen such that one encounters no scalloping and the other encounters maximum scalloping.
0.627: (one; encounters; no scalloping and the other encounters)

 Both sinusoids suffer less SNR loss under the Hann window than under the Blackman Harris window.
0.783: (Both sinusoids; suffer; less SNR loss)

 In general  as mentioned earlier   this is a deterrent to using high dynamic range windows in low dynamic range applications.
0.7: (a deterrent; is in; general)
0.674: (high dynamic range windows; be using in; low dynamic range applications)

Windows are sometimes used in the design of digital filters  in particular to convert an  ideal  impulse response of infinite duration  such as a sinc function  to a finite impulse response  FIR  filter design.
0.948: (Windows; are sometimes used in; the design of digital filters)
0.708: (an ideal impulse response of infinite duration; to convert to be; a finite impulse response FIR filter design)

 That is called the window method.
No extractions found.

Window functions are sometimes used in the field of statistical analysis to restrict the set of data being analyzed to a range near a given point  with a weighting factor that diminishes the effect of points farther away from the portion of the curve being fit.
0.945: (Window functions; are sometimes used in; the field of statistical analysis)
0.768: (Window functions; to restrict; the set of data)
0.679: (data; being analyzed to; a range)
0.564: (the effect of points; be diminishes by; a weighting factor)

 In the field of Bayesian analysis and curve fitting   this is often referred to as the kernel.
No extractions found.

When analyzing a transient signal in modal analysis  such as an impulse  a shock response  a sine burst  a chirp burst  or noise burst  where the energy vs time distribution is extremely uneven  the rectangular window may be most appropriate.
0.841: (a sine; burst; a chirp burst or noise burst where the energy vs time distribution is extremely uneven the rectangular window may be most appropriate)
0.705: (the energy; is extremely; uneven)
0.622: (a transient signal; be analyzing in; modal analysis)
0.351: (uneven; be the energy vs; time distribution)

 For instance  when most of the energy is located at the beginning of the recording  a non rectangular window attenuates most of the energy  degrading the signal to noise ratio.
0.931: (most of the energy; is located at; the beginning of the recording a non rectangular window)
0.674: (the signal; be degrading to; noise ratio)
0.659: (most of the energy; is located in; the beginning of the recording a non rectangular window)
0.651: (most of the energy; is located on; the beginning of the recording a non rectangular window)
0.627: (the energy; degrading the signal to; noise ratio)

One might wish to measure the harmonic content of a musical note from a particular instrument or the harmonic distortion of an amplifier at a given frequency.
0.854: (One; might wish to measure; the harmonic content of a musical note)
0.809: (One; might wish to measure the harmonic content of a musical note from; a particular instrument or the harmonic distortion of an amplifier)
0.746: (the harmonic content of a musical note; to be measure from; a particular instrument or the harmonic distortion of an amplifier)
0.507: (One; might wish to measure the harmonic content of a musical note at; a given frequency)
0.478: (the harmonic content of a musical note; to be measure at; a given frequency)

 Referring again to Figure 1  we can observe that there is no leakage at a discrete set of harmonically related frequencies sampled by the DFT.
0.676: (harmonically related frequencies; be sampled by; the DFT.)
0.561: (discrete; set of; harmonically related frequencies sampled by the DFT.)

  The spectral nulls are actually zero crossings  which cannot be shown on a logarithmic scale such as this.
