The three properties of a vector are type, length, and attributes.
0.492: (type , length , and attributes; be The three properties of; a vector)

The four common types of atomic vector are logical, integer, double , and character.
0.492: (logical , integer , double , and character; be The four common types of; atomic vector)

 The two rarer types are complex and raw.
No extractions found.

A vector is the most common and basic data structure in R and is pretty much the workhorse of R.
0.894: (A vector; is the most common and basic data structure in; R)
0.85: (A vector; is pretty much the workhorse of; R.)
0.828: (A vector; is pretty much; the most common and basic data structure in R and is pretty much the workhorse of R.)
0.792: (A vector; is; the most common and basic data structure in R and is pretty much the workhorse of R.)

 Technically, vectors can be one of two types.
No extractions found.

 atomic vectors.
No extractions found.

 lists.
No extractions found.

What are the different data structures in R .
No extractions found.

How do I access data within the various data structures .
0.708: (data; do access within; the various data structures)
0.626: (I; do access data within; the various data structures)
0.569: (I; do access; data)

Expose learners to the different data types in R.
No extractions found.

length  number of elements or components str     structure of an object class   class or type of an object names   names c object,object,.
0.482: (,object; be length number of; elements or components str structure of an object class class or type of an object names names c)

          combine objects into a vector cbind object, object, .
0.837: (objects; be combine into; a vector cbind object)

    combine objects as columns rbind object, object, .
0.605: (columns; rbind; object)

    combine objects as rows object       prints the object ls        list current objects rm  delete an object newobject  _ edit  edit copy and save as newobject fix                edit in place.
0.834: (objects; be combine as; rows)
0.678: (list current objects; rm delete; an object newobject _ edit edit copy)

