Due to the deficiencies of the previous strategies, routing protocols become necessary in wireless sensor networks.
0.847: (routing protocols; become necessary in; wireless sensor networks)
0.689: (routing protocols; become necessary to; the deficiencies of the previous strategies)

 Nevertheless, the inclusion of a routing protocol in a wireless sensor network is not a trivial task.
0.689: (the inclusion of a routing protocol; Nevertheless is; not a trivial task)
0.478: (not a trivial task; be the inclusion of; a routing protocol)

 One of the main limitations is the identification of nodes.
0.93: (One of the main limitations; is the identification of; nodes)
0.778: (One of the main limitations; is; the identification of nodes)

 Since wireless sensor networks are formed by a significant number of nodes, the manual assignation of unique identifiers becomes infeasible .
0.751: (the manual assignation of unique identifiers; becomes; infeasible)
0.399: (infeasible; be the manual assignation of; unique identifiers)

 The use of potentially unique identifier such as the MAC address or the GPS coordinates is not recommended as it forces a significant payload in the messages .
0.605: (it; forces; a significant payload)

 However, this drawback is easily overcome in wireless sensor networks since an IP address is not required to identify the destination node of a specific packet.
0.907: (this drawback; However is easily overcome in; wireless sensor networks)[enabler=since an IP address is not required to identify the destination node of a specific packet]
0.723: (an IP address; to identify; the destination node of a specific packet)

 In fact, attribute_based addressing fits better with the specificities of wireless sensor networks.
No extractions found.

 In this case, an attribute such as node location and sensor type is used to identify the final destination.
0.754: (an attribute; is used in; this case)
0.75: (an attribute; to identify; the final destination)

Wireless sensor networks are formed by a significant number of nodes so the manual assignation of unique identifiers is infeasible.
0.948: (Wireless sensor networks; are formed by; a significant number of nodes)[enabler=so the manual assignation of unique identifiers is infeasible]
0.598: (the manual assignation of unique identifiers; is; infeasible)
0.399: (infeasible; be the manual assignation of; unique identifiers)

 The use of the MAC address or the GPS coordinates is not recommended as it introduces a significant payload .
0.568: (it; introduces; a significant payload)

 However, network_wide unique addresses are not needed to identify the destination node of a specific packet in wireless sensor networks.
0.83: (network_wide unique addresses; to identify; the destination node of a specific packet)

 In fact, attribute_based addressing fits better with the specificities of wireless sensor networks.
No extractions found.

 In this case, an attribute such as node location and sensor type is used to identify the final destination.
0.754: (an attribute; is used in; this case)
0.75: (an attribute; to identify; the final destination)

 Concerning these identifiers, two different approaches have been proposed .
0.628: (two different approaches; have been proposed concerning; these identifiers)

 Firstly, the ID reuse scheme allows identifiers to be repeated in the network but keeping their uniqueness in close areas.
0.894: (identifiers; to be repeated in; the network)
0.743: (their uniqueness; be keeping in; close areas)

 In this way, a node knows that its identifier is unique in a k_hop neighborhood, being k a parameter to configure.
0.816: (a parameter; be k to; configure)
0.802: (its identifier; is unique in; a k_hop neighborhood)[attrib=a node knows]
0.753: (its identifier; is; unique)
0.667: (a node; knows in; this way)

 On the other hand, the field_wide unique ID schemes guarantee that the identifiers are unique in the whole application.
0.744: (the identifiers; are unique in; the whole application)

 With this assumption, other protocols such as routing, MAC or network configurations can be simultaneously used.
0.754: (other protocols; can be simultaneously used with; this assumption)

Routing in Wireless Sensor Networks plays a significant role in the field of environment_oriented monitoring, traffic monitoring, etc.
No extractions found.

 Here, wide contributions that are made toward routing in WSN are explored.
No extractions found.

 The paper mainly aims to categorize the routing problems and examines the routing_related optimization problems.
0.782: (The paper; mainly aims to categorize the routing problems and examines; the routing_related optimization problems)

 For achieving the motive, 50 papers from the standard journals are collected and primarily reviewed in a chronological way.
0.892: (50 papers; be primarily reviewed in; a chronological way)

 Later, various features that are related to energy, security, speed and reliability problems of routing are discussed.
No extractions found.

 Subsequently, the literature is analyzed based on the simulation environment and experimental setup, awareness over the Quality of Service and the deployment against various applications.
No extractions found.

 In addition, the optimization of the routing algorithms and the meta_heuristic study of routing optimization are explored.
0.754: (the optimization of the routing algorithms and the meta_heuristic study of routing optimization; are explored in; addition)

 Routing is a vast area with numerous unsolved issues and hence, various research gaps along with future directions are also presented.
0.905: (Routing; is a vast area with; numerous unsolved issues)
0.795: (Routing; is; a vast area various research gaps along with future directions are also presented)
0.655: (various research gaps; are also presented in; a vast area)

