1;Photo Credits Wireless Sensor Networks by dolcera.
1; Wireless Sensor Network Topologies by ni.
1; Underground WSNs by amrita.
1; Under Water WSNs by jurdak.
1; Multimedia WSNs by ohio_state.
1; Wireless Sensor Networks Applications by immateriel.
0;Photo Credits Wireless Sensor Networks by dolcera.
0; Wireless Sensor Network Topologies by ni.
0; Underground WSNs by amrita.
0; Under Water WSNs by jurdak.
0; Multimedia WSNs by ohio_state.
0; Wireless Sensor Networks Applications by immateriel.
0;The most common WSN architecture follows the OSI architecture Model.
0; The architecture of the WSN includes five layers and three cross layers.
0; Mostly in sensor n w we require five layers, namely application, transport, n w, data link   physical layer.
0; The three cross planes are namely power management, mobility management, and task management.
0; These layers of the WSN are used to accomplish the n w and make the sensors work together in order to raise the complete efficiency of the network.
0;Please follow the below link for.
0; Types of wireless sensor networks and WSN topologies.
0;The main characteristics of a WSN include.
0; Power consumption constraints for nodes using batteries or energy harvesting.
0; Ability to cope with node failures .
0; Some mobility of nodes .
0; Heterogeneity of nodes.
0; Scalability to large scale of deployment.
0; Ability to withstand harsh environmental conditions.
0; Ease of use.
0; Cross_layer design 14  15 .
0;v.
0;t.
0;e.
0;v.
0;t.
0;e.
0;.
0;.
0;There are different types of sensor networks such as underground, underwater, terrestrial and multimedia WSNs etc.
0; We will discuss them briefly.
0;                                               .
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;WSN nodes are typically organized in one of three types of network topologies.
0; In a star topology, each node connects directly to a gateway.
0; In a cluster tree network, each node connects to a node higher in the tree and then to the gateway, and data is routed from the lowest node on the tree to the gateway.
0; Finally, to offer increased reliability, mesh networks feature nodes that can connect to multiple nodes in the system and pass data through the most reliable path available.
0; This mesh link is often referred to as a router .
