1;linear.
1;quadratic.
1;power.
1;polynomial.
1;rational.
1;exponential.
1;logarithmic.
1;sinusoidal.
0;linear.
0;quadratic.
0;power.
0;polynomial.
0;rational.
0;exponential.
0;logarithmic.
0;sinusoidal.
0;Algebraic functions are functions that can be expressed as the solution of a polynomial equation with integer coefficients.
0; Polynomials.
0; Can be generated by addition, multiplication, and exponentiation alone.
0; Constant function.
0; polynomial of degree zero, graph is a horizontal straight line Linear function.
0; First degree polynomial, graph is a straight line.
0; Quadratic function.
0; Second degree polynomial, graph is a parabola.
0; Cubic function.
0; Third degree polynomial.
0; Quartic function.
0; Fourth degree polynomial.
0; Quintic function.
0; Fifth degree polynomial.
0; Sextic function.
0; Sixth degree polynomial.
0; Rational functions.
0; A ratio of two polynomials.
0; nth root Square root.
0; Yields a number whose square is the given one.
0; Cube root.
0; Yields a number whose cube is the given one.
0;.
0;.
0;There are various types of algebraic functions.
0;The mathematical concept of a function expresses the intuitive idea that one quantity completely determines another quantity.
0; An equation will be a function if for any x in the domain of the equation, there is exactly one value of y.
0; More formally, a function is defined a type of relation which has only one output value with respect any permissible input value.
0; The argument and the value may be real numbers, but they can also be elements from any given sets.
0; the domain, the co_domain of the function and all the assigned values are in the Range of the function.
0; It is important how we assign the values to each element of the domain.
0; There may be different types of functions in mathematics.
0; The classification of functions on the basis of properties may be as follows .
0; Even Function Odd Function Monotonic Function Surjective Function Bijective Function Injective Function The functions can be classified into following on the basis of variables used .
0; Algebraic Function Exponential Function Logarithmic Function Analytic Function Inverse Function Monotonic Function Polynomial Function Linear Function Quadratic Function Elliptic Function Identity Function Constant Function Power Function Vector_valued Function Integer_valued Function Periodic Function Piece_wise linear Function etc.
0; In this article, we shall learn about few of the above mentioned types of functions.
0;A polynomial or algebraic function is a function which can be expressed in the following form.
0;  f  a_ n x  n    a_ n _ 1 x  n _ 1   .
0;   a_ 2 x  2    a_ 1 x  1    a_ 0  .
0;Here are some of the most commonly_used functions, and their graphs.
0;Linear Function.
0;f  mx   b.
0;f   x.
0;f   x .
0;Graphing Basic Functions 8 01.
0;Compounding Functions and Graphing Functions of Functions 7 47.
0;Understanding and Graphing the Inverse Function 7 31.
0;Polynomials Functions  Properties and Factoring 7 45.
0;Polynomials Functions  Exponentials and Simplifying 7 45.
0;Exponentials, Logarithms   the Natural Log 8 36.
0;Slopes and Tangents on a Graph 10 05.
0;Equation of a Line Using Point_Slope Formula 9 27.
0;Horizontal and Vertical Asymptotes 7 47.
0;Implicit Functions 4 30.
0;Graphs  Types, Examples   Functions 5 06.
0;3 10 Next Lesson Congruent in Math  Definition   Examples.
0;Finding Absolute Extrema  Practice Problems   Overview.
0;Vertical Asymptotes  Definition   Rules 4 29.
0;Go to Algebra II _ Graphing and Functions  Help and Review.
0;There are eight types of graphs that you will see more often than other types.
0; Each has its own type of function that produces the graphs.
0; They are easy to visually distinguish and by knowing how each looks, you can get an idea of what a graph might look like just by analyzing the function.
0; The eight types are linear, power, quadratic, polynomial, rational, exponential, logarithmic, and sinusoidal.
0;Go to Algebra II _ Basic Arithmetic Review  Help and Review.
