0;Some object_oriented databases are designed to work well with object_oriented programming languages such as Delphi, Ruby, Python, Perl, Java, C , Visual Basic .
0;NET, C  , Objective_C and Smalltalk  others such as JADE have their own programming languages.
0; OODBMSs use exactly the same model as object_oriented programming languages.
0;v.
0;t.
0;e.
0;.
0;.
0;An object_oriented database is a database that subscribes to a model with information represented by objects.
0; Object_oriented databases are a niche offering in the relational database management system field and are not as successful or well_known as mainstream database engines.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;As the name implies, the main feature of object_oriented databases is allowing the definition of objects, which are different from normal database objects.
0; Objects, in an object_oriented database, reference the ability to develop a product, then define and name it.
0; The object can then be referenced, or called later, as a unit without having to go into its complexities.
0; This is very similar to objects used in object_oriented programming.
0; A real_life parallel to objects is a car engine.
0; It is composed of several parts.
0; the main cylinder block, the exhaust system, intake manifold and so on.
0; Each of these is a standalone component  but when machined and bolted into one object, they are now collectively referred to as an engine.
0; Similarly, when programming one can define several components, such as a vertical line intersecting a perpendicular horizontal line while both lines have a graded measurement.
0; This object can then be collectively labeled a graph.
0; When utilizing the ability to plot components, there is no need to first define a graph  but rather the instance of the created graph can be called.
0; Examples of object_oriented database engines include db4o, Smalltalk and Cache.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;There are two types of object based data Models   Entity Relationship Model and Object oriented data model.
0; ER data model is one of the important data model which forms the basis for the all the designs in the database world.
0; It defines the mapping between the entities in the database.
0; Object oriented data model, along with the mapping between the entities, describes the state of each entity and the tasks performed by them.
0;Consider the example above.
0; It maps entities like Student, Lecturer, Subjects, and Marks with each other to form the relation among them.
0; It also list attributes of each objects.
0; ER model represents the all these entities, attributes and their relationship in the form of picture to make the developer understand the system better.
0; A simple ER diagram for above example can be drawn as below.
0; Are you able to understand what are the entities involved, what are its attributes and their relations that we were discussing better here  Yes, it is clean and clear what a STUDENT database look like.
0; It gives the clear understanding of how they are scattered and mapped.
0; If we have missed any entities or attribute or the mapping, we can easily identify here.
0; If we represent it in some tables, it would be difficult to identify this gap.
0;Let us consider an Employee database to understand this model better.
0; In this database we have different types of employees   Engineer, Accountant, Manager, Clark.
0; But all these employees belong to Person group.
0; Person can have different attributes like name, address, age and phone.
0; What do we do if we want to get a person s address and phone number  We write two separate procedure sp_getAddress and sp_getPhone.
0;Object oriented databases are also called Object Database Management Systems .
0; Object databases store objects rather than data such as integers, strings or real numbers.
0; Objects are used in object oriented languages such as Smalltalk, C  , Java, and others.
0; Objects basically consist of the following.
0; Attributes _ Attributes are data which defines the characteristics of an object.
0; This data may be simple such as integers, strings, and real numbers or it may be a reference to a complex object.
0; Methods _ Methods define the behavior of an object and are what was formally called procedures or functions.
0;Objects don t require assembly and disassembly saving coding time and execution time to assemble or disassemble objects .
0;Reduced paging.
0;Easier navigation.
0;Better concurrency control _ A hierarchy of objects may be locked .
0;Data model is based on the real world .
0;Works well for distributed architectures .
0;Less code required when applications are object oriented .
