Genetic Algorithms can be used for both supervised and unsupervised learning, e.
g.
Supervised learning in attribute_based spaces is one of the most popular machine learning problems studied and, consequently, has attracted considerable attention of the genetic algorithm community.
 The full_memory approach developed here uses the same high_level descriptive language that is used in rule_based systems.
 This allows for an easy utilization of inference rules of the well_known inductive learning methodology, which replace the traditional domain_independent operators and make the search task_specific.
 Moreover, a closer relationship between the underlying task and the processing mechanisms provides a setting for an application of more powerful task_specific heuristics.
 Initial results obtained with a prototype implementation for the simplest case of single concepts indicate that genetic algorithms can be effectively used to process high_level concepts and incorporate task_specific knowledge.
 The method of abstracting the genetic algorithm to the problem level, described here for the supervised inductive learning, can be also extended to other domains and tasks, since it provides a framework for combining recently popular genetic algorithm methods with traditional problem_solving methodologies.
 Moreover, in this particular case, it provides a very powerful tool enabling study of the widely accepted but not so well understood inductive learning methodology.
Supervised learning algorithms are ones for which we have some known labels on our inputs , whereas in unsupervised learning we don t have any known outputs.
 Regardless, in both cases we need to learn the parameters that relate the input to the output.
Time Series Prediction with LSTM Recurrent Neural Networks in Python with Keras July 21, 2016.
Your First Machine Learning Project in Python Step_By_Step June 10, 2016.
Develop Your First Neural Network in Python With Keras Step_By_Step May 24, 2016.
Sequence Classification with LSTM Recurrent Neural Networks in Python with Keras July 26, 2016.
Multi_Class Classification Tutorial with the Keras Deep Learning Library June 2, 2016.
How to Run Your First Classifier in Weka February 17, 2014.
Regression Tutorial with the Keras Deep Learning Library in Python June 9, 2016.
A Tour of Machine Learning Algorithms November 25, 2013.
Tutorial To Implement k_Nearest Neighbors in Python From Scratch September 12, 2014.
How to Implement the Backpropagation Algorithm From Scratch In Python November 7, 2016.
I also did not cover algorithms from specialty subfields of machine learning, such as.
 Computational intelligence  evolutionary algorithms, etc.
 .
 Computer Vision .
 Natural Language Processing .
 Recommender Systems.
 Reinforcement Learning.
 Graphical Models.
 And more .
