0;Symmetric multiprocessing involves a multiprocessor computer hardware and software architecture where two or more identical processors are connected to a single, shared main memory, have full access to all I O devices, and are controlled by a single operating system instance that treats all processors equally, reserving none for special purposes.
0; Most multiprocessor systems today use an SMP architecture.
0; In the case of multi_core processors, the SMP architecture applies to the cores, treating them as separate processors.
0;v.
0;t.
0;e.
0;.
0;.
0;SMP is the processing of programs by multiple processors that share a common operating system and memory.
0; In symmetric multiprocessing, the processors share memory and the I O bus or data path.
0; A single copy of the operating system is in charge of all the processors.
0; SMP, also known as a  shared everything  system, does not usually exceed 16 processors.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;One of the easiest and cheapest ways to improve hardware performance is to put more than one CPU on the board.
0; This can be done either making the different CPU s take on different jobs or by making them all run in parallel, doing the same job  symmetrical multi_processing, a.
0;k.
0;a.
0; SMP .
0; Doing asymmetrical multi_processing effectively requires specialized knowledge about the tasks the computer should do, which is unavailable in a general purpose operating system such as Linux.
0; On the other hand, symmetrical multi_processing is relatively easy to implement.
0;Short for Symmetric Multiprocessing, a computer architecture that provides fast performance by making multiple CPUs available to complete individual processes simultaneously .
0; Unlike asymmetrical processing, any idle processor can be assigned any task, and additional CPUs can be added to improve performance and handle increased loads.
0; A variety of specialized operating systems and hardware arrangements are available to support SMP.
0; Specific applications can benefit from SMP if the code allows multithreading.
0;Toby Foster   Dec 12, 2007.
0;Engineers contemplating a migration from a single_core to a multicore processor must identify where parallelism exists in their application.
0; The next decision is how to partition the code over the cores of the device.
0; The two main options are symmetric_multiprocessor mode and asymmetric_multiprocessor mode.
0;Or, different OSs may reside on the two cores.
0; For example, if two previously separate processors are being collapsed onto one dual_core device, different OSs may reside on the two cores.
0;By Andrew S  Tanenbaum.
0;Mar 22, 2002.
0;This scheme is still better than having n separate computers since itallows all the machines to share a set of disks and other I O devices, and italso allows the memory to be shared flexibly.
0; For example, if one day anunusually large program has to be run, one of the CPUs can be allocated an extralarge portion of memory for the duration of that program.
0; In addition, processescan efficiently communicate with one another by having, say a producer be ableto write data into memory and have a consumer fetch it from the place theproducer wrote it.
0;Our third model, the SMP , eliminatesthis asymmetry.
0; There is one copy of the operating system in memory, but any CPUcan run it.
0; When a system call is made, the CPU on which the system call wasmade traps to the kernel and processes the system call.
0; The SMP model isillustrated in Fig.
0; 8_8.
0;By.
0; Colin Walls, Posted on.
0; June 17, 2015.
0;     .
0;.
0;.
0;.
0;AMP stands for Asymmetric Multi_Processing  SMP means Symmetric Multi_Processing.
0; These terms are not at all transparent.
0; In seeking a means to clarify, I thought I would check Wikipedia and looked up  AMP .
0; From the disambiguation page, I found the relevant article.
0; Well, I say  relevant , but it really does not cover the topic as we see it today.
0; It talks about historical uses of multiple CPUs and dismisses it to history.
0; So, I will try to advance definitions.
0;     .
0;.
0;.
0;.
