linear.
quadratic.
power.
polynomial.
rational.
exponential.
logarithmic.
sinusoidal.
linear.
quadratic.
power.
polynomial.
rational.
exponential.
logarithmic.
sinusoidal.
Algebraic functions are functions that can be expressed as the solution of a polynomial equation with integer coefficients.
 Polynomials.
 Can be generated by addition, multiplication, and exponentiation alone.
 Constant function.
 polynomial of degree zero, graph is a horizontal straight line Linear function.
 First degree polynomial, graph is a straight line.
 Quadratic function.
 Second degree polynomial, graph is a parabola.
 Cubic function.
 Third degree polynomial.
 Quartic function.
 Fourth degree polynomial.
 Quintic function.
 Fifth degree polynomial.
 Sextic function.
 Sixth degree polynomial.
 Rational functions.
 A ratio of two polynomials.
 nth root Square root.
 Yields a number whose square is the given one.
 Cube root.
 Yields a number whose cube is the given one.
.
.
There are various types of algebraic functions.
The mathematical concept of a function expresses the intuitive idea that one quantity completely determines another quantity.
 An equation will be a function if for any x in the domain of the equation, there is exactly one value of y.
 More formally, a function is defined a type of relation which has only one output value with respect any permissible input value.
 The argument and the value may be real numbers, but they can also be elements from any given sets.
 the domain, the co_domain of the function and all the assigned values are in the Range of the function.
 It is important how we assign the values to each element of the domain.
 There may be different types of functions in mathematics.
 The classification of functions on the basis of properties may be as follows .
 Even Function Odd Function Monotonic Function Surjective Function Bijective Function Injective Function The functions can be classified into following on the basis of variables used .
 Algebraic Function Exponential Function Logarithmic Function Analytic Function Inverse Function Monotonic Function Polynomial Function Linear Function Quadratic Function Elliptic Function Identity Function Constant Function Power Function Vector_valued Function Integer_valued Function Periodic Function Piece_wise linear Function etc.
 In this article, we shall learn about few of the above mentioned types of functions.
A polynomial or algebraic function is a function which can be expressed in the following form.
  f  a_ n x  n    a_ n _ 1 x  n _ 1   .
   a_ 2 x  2    a_ 1 x  1    a_ 0  .
An error occurred trying to load this video.
Try refreshing the page, or contact customer support.
As a member, you ll also get unlimited access to over 55,000 lessons in math, English, science, history, and more.
 Plus, get practice tests, quizzes, and personalized coaching to help you succeed.
Want to watch this again later .
Log in or sign up to add this lesson to a Custom Course.
Login or Sign up.
Amy has a master s degree in secondary education and has taught math at a public charter high school.
There are eight types of graphs that you will see more often than other types.
 Each has its own type of function that produces the graphs.
 They are easy to visually distinguish and by knowing how each looks, you can get an idea of what a graph might look like just by analyzing the function.
 The eight types are linear, power, quadratic, polynomial, rational, exponential, logarithmic, and sinusoidal.
Linear graphs are produced by linear functions of this form.
Linear functions have variables to the first degree and have two constants that determine the location of the graph.
 These functions always graph into a line.
 The constant m determines whether the line slopes down or up.
 If it is positive, the line will slope up, and if it is negative, then the line will slope down.
Power graphs are produced by functions with only one term and a power.
 The power can be positive, negative, or even a fraction.
The graphs that these types of functions produce vary depending on the power.
 If the power is positive, the graph changes direction based on the number of the power.
 If the power is even, the graph will have both edges going in the same direction.
 If the power is odd, the graph will have one edge going up and another going down.
 If the power is negative, it will have two parts.
 Each part will avoid the x 0 line because that will cause division by zero.
 When the power is a fraction, the graph goes up at x 0 and then when y is positive, it starts curving towards the x_axis.
Quadratics are functions where the highest power is two.
They graph into parabolas.
 The constants a, b, and c determine the location of the parabola on the graph.
 The a tells you whether the parabola will open up or down.
 If it s positive, it will open up and smile.
 If it s negative, it will open down and frown.
Polynomials are a more general function than a quadratic and allow for higher powers that are still whole numbers.
These functions produce more interesting graphs with more curves.
 The highest power of the function tells you how many curves or ups and downs the graph may have.
Rational graphs are from functions that are the division of two polynomials.
 When these are graphed, you will see the graph split into parts.
 The areas that the graph avoids are where division by zero happens.
Exponentials are where the x variable is the power.
Get FREE access for 5 days, just create an account.
No obligation, cancel anytime.
Select a subject to preview related courses.
 Math.
 History.
 English.
 ACT SAT.
 Science.
 Business.
 Psychology.
 AP.
When b is greater than one, then you will see exponential growth occur.
 If it is less than one but greater than zero, you will see exponential decay.
 Growth is when the graph rises to the right.
 Decay is when it drops to the right.
Logarithmic functions involve the graphing of logarithms.
These graphs are similar to the exponentials except they rise earlier and grow slower.
Sinusoidal graphs use functions that have the sine function inside.
The graph shows up as a wave pattern.
Different types of graphs depend on the type of function that is graphed.
 The eight most commonly used graphs are linear, power, quadratic, polynomial, rational, exponential, logarithmic, and sinusoidal.
 Each has a unique graph that is easy to visually differentiate from the rest.
You might see other types of graphs that aren t listed here.
 That s because there are many different types of functions, and the more you continue learning math, the more you will get exposed to.
 What you have learned in this lesson is a good beginning framework for the types of graphs you will see.
After you have finished this lesson, you should be able to name and identify the eight most commonly used graphs.
To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.
com Member.
 Create your account.
Already a member  Log In.
Did you know  We have over 95 college courses that prepare you to earn credit by exam that is accepted by over 2,000 colleges and universities.
 You can test out of the first two years of college and save thousands off your degree.
 Anyone can earn credit_by_exam regardless of age or education level.
To learn more, visit our Earning Credit Page.
Not sure what college you want to attend yet  Study.
com has thousands of articles about every imaginable degree, area of study and career path that can help you find the school that s right for you.
Get the unbiased info you need to find the right school.
Browse an area of study or degree level.
 Back To Course.
26 chapters   295 lessons.
Next Lesson.
Your Cart is Empty.
 Please Choose a Product.
Study.
com video lessons have helped over 10 million students.
 I learned more in 10 minutes than 1 month of chemistry classes .
_ Ashlee P.
 I aced the CLEP exam and earned 3 college credits  .
_ Clair S.
Study.
com video lessons have helped over half a million teachers engage their students.
The videos have changed the way I teach  The videos on Study.
com accomplish in 5 minutes what would take me an entire class.
 .
_ Chris F.
Students in online learning conditions performed better than those receiving face_to_face instruction.
U.
S.
 Department of Education.
  copyright 2003_2017 Study.
com.
 All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners.
 All rights reserved.
Plans.
Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT   SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level College High School Middle School Explore over 3,700 video courses Browse All Courses.
Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School   GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit   Get your Degree fast Learn more.
Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Find a degree that fits your goals Search degrees.
Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling   Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos R sum  How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree   Career Research Articles.
Contact Support.
Science.
Math.
Business.
Psychology.
History.
English.
Social Science.
Humanities.
Spanish.
ACT   SAT Test Prep.
Teacher Certification.
Professional Development.
College.
High School.
Middle School.
Online College Credit.
High School   GED.
Certificates of Completion.
How it Works.
Agriculture.
Architecture.
Biological and Biomedical Sciences.
Business.
Communications and Journalism.
Computer Sciences.
Culinary Arts and Personal Services.
Education.
Engineering.
Legal.
Liberal Arts and Humanities.
Mechanic and Repair Technologies.
Medical and Health Professions.
Physical Sciences.
Psychology.
Transportation and Distribution.
Visual and Performing Arts.
High School Diploma.
Associates Degrees.
Bachelor Degrees.
Master Degrees.
Online Degrees.
Graduate Degrees.
High School Diplomas.
Certificate Programs.
Post Degree Certificates.
Undergraduate Degrees.
Public Schools by State.
University Video Reviews.
Job Interviewing Tip Videos.
Job Networking Videos.
R sum  How To Videos.
Job Search Tips.
Career Videos.
Researching Careers Videos.
Glossary of Careers.
Career Info by Degree.
Job Outlook by Region.
Degree   Career Research Articles.
Video.
Quiz   Worksheet _ Types   Functions of Graphs Quiz.
Course.
0 01 Different Types of Graphs.
0 32 Linear and Power Graphs.
2 00 Quadratic and .
3 12 Rational and .
3 53 Logarithmic and .
4 21 Lesson Summary.
Related Lessons.
Related Courses.
Agriculture.
Architecture.
Biological and Biomedical Sciences.
Business.
Communications and Journalism.
Computer Sciences.
Culinary Arts and Personal Services.
Education.
Engineering.
Legal.
Liberal Arts and Humanities.
Mechanic and Repair Technologies.
Medical and Health Professions.
Physical Sciences.
Psychology.
Transportation and Distribution.
Visual and Performing Arts.
High School Diploma.
Associates Degrees.
Bachelor Degrees.
Master Degrees.
Online Degrees.
Related.
Recently Updated.
Popular.
Biology Lesson Plans  Physiology, Mitosis, Metric System Video Lessons.
Lesson Plan Design Courses and Classes Overview.
Online Typing Class, Lesson and Course Overviews.
Diary of an OCW Music Student, Week 4  Circular Pitch Systems and the Triad.
Personality Disorder Crime Force  Study com Academy Sneak Peek.
Is Suspension Ever a Good Punishment .
Decisions Revisited  Why Did You Choose a Public or Private College .
Categorizing Memory  Study com Academy Early Release.
Plans for a Common Core Standards Open Resource.
Education Writer  Job Description   Career Info.
Careers in Research Writing.
Jobs that Require Writing Skills.
Be a Licensed Florist  Licensure and Certification Information.
Physical Therapy Schools in Utah.
Best Degree Programs for Learning Electronics _ Fort Wayne IN.
Eden Prairie, Minnesota Colleges.
Business Management Degrees Top Ranked Business Management Programs _ Santa Ana CA.
Best School for a Masters in Public Administration Degree _ Milwaukee WI.
Go to Algebra II _ Basic Arithmetic Review  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Algebraic Expressions  Help   Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Real Numbers  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Complex and Imaginary Numbers Review  Help and Review.
Go to Exponents   Exponential Expressions in Algebra  Help   Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Properties of Functions Review  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Linear Equations Review  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Systems of Linear Equations  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Inequalities Review  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Matrices and Determinants  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Absolute Value Review  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Polynomials  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Factoring  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II Quadratic Equations  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Rational Expressions  Help and Review.
Graphing Basic Functions 8 01.
Compounding Functions and Graphing Functions of Functions 7 47.
Understanding and Graphing the Inverse Function 7 31.
Polynomials Functions  Properties and Factoring 7 45.
Polynomials Functions  Exponentials and Simplifying 7 45.
Exponentials, Logarithms   the Natural Log 8 36.
Slopes and Tangents on a Graph 10 05.
Equation of a Line Using Point_Slope Formula 9 27.
Horizontal and Vertical Asymptotes 7 47.
Implicit Functions 4 30.
Graphs  Types, Examples   Functions 5 06.
3 10 Next Lesson Congruent in Math  Definition   Examples.
Finding Absolute Extrema  Practice Problems   Overview.
Vertical Asymptotes  Definition   Rules 4 29.
Go to Algebra II _ Graphing and Functions  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Roots and Radical Expressions Review  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Quadratic Equations  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Exponential and Logarithmic Functions  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Conic Sections  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Sequences and Series  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Sets  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Combinatorics  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II Ratios   Proportions  Help   Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Statistics  Help and Review.
Go to Algebra II _ Trigonometry  Help and Review.
Related.
Recently Updated.
Popular.
Browse by Courses.
Math Courses.
Algebra Courses.
Certificates Courses.
Teacher Resources Courses.
Study Courses.
High School Geometry  Homework Help Resource.
High School Geometry  Tutoring Solution.
High School Trigonometry  Homework Help Resource.
High School Trigonometry  Help and Review.
High School Trigonometry  Tutoring Solution.
GRE Prep  Help and Review.
GRE Prep  Tutoring Solution.
High School Precalculus  Tutoring Solution.
Precalculus  Homework Help Resource.
College Algebra  Help and Review.
Precalculus  Help and Review.
High School Precalculus  Help and Review.
Calculus  Help and Review.
Browse by Lessons.
Question Types for PSAT Passage_Based Readings.
Practice with Long Reading Passages on the PSAT.
Finding Evidence in a Reading Passage  Strategies   Examples.
SAT Writing   Language Test  Command of Evidence.
SAT Writing   Language Test  Analysis Questions _ History   Science.
Quiz   Worksheet _ PSAT Writing Strategies.
Quiz   Worksheet _ About the PSAT.
Quiz   Worksheet _ The PSAT Reading Section.
Quiz   Worksheet _ Structure of the PSAT.
Quiz   Worksheet _ PSAT Reading Strategies.
NY Regents _ Similar Polygons  Tutoring Solution.
NY Regents _ Quadrilaterals  Tutoring Solution.
NY Regents _ Circular Arcs and Circles  Tutoring Solution.
NY Regents _ Analytical Geometry  Tutoring Solution.
NY Regents _ Triangles and Congruency  Tutoring Solution.
Latest Courses.
How to Be Successful in Retail Sales.
National Nurse Aide Assessment  Exam Prep   Study Guide.
Marketing 102  Intro to Digital Marketing.
Native Son Study Guide.
UExcel Financial Accounting  Study Guide   Test Prep.
The Business Cycle   Economics.
National Income Accounting Overview.
Understanding Monetary Policy.
Fundamental Concepts of Macroeconomics.
Demand, Supply   the Economic Market.
Arizona English Language Proficiency Standards   Levels.
SBEC Technology Application Standards for Teachers.
How to Find Financial Aid for Teachers.
New Mexico State Standards for Science.
ELL Services in Massachusetts.
Publications for ESL Teachers.
WIDA Can Do Descriptors for Grades 9_12.
Latest Lessons.
How to Use Otherwise in a Sentence.
Jack in Lord of the Flies  Character Analysis   Quotes.
Music During the Enlightenment Period.
What Is Terrorism  _ Definition, History, Types   Examples.
John Quincy Adams  Presidency  Lesson for Kids.
Life Cycle of Trees  Lesson for Kids.
Poetic Devices Activities   Games.
Broken or Fractured Femur  Symptoms, Treatment   Recovery.
Quiz   Worksheet _ Slavery   Abolition.
Quiz   Worksheet _ Contrapuntal Music.
Quiz   Worksheet _ Philip Bazaar   the Civil War.
Quiz   Worksheet _ Tone   Viewpoint of Heart of Darkness.
Continuous Probability Distributions Flashcards.
Regression   Correlation Flashcards.
Popular Courses.
Calculus  Certificate Program.
GED Math  Tutoring Solution.
Introduction to Psychology  Tutoring Solution.
Statistics for Teachers  Professional Development.
Holt McDougal Earth Science  Online Textbook Help.
Studying for Political Science 102.
Studying for Health 101.
Quiz   Worksheet _ Actus Reus.
Quiz   Worksheet _ TOEFL Reading Practice.
Quiz   Worksheet _ Adjudication Process   Services.
Quiz   Worksheet _ 6th Amendment.
Quiz   Worksheet _ Transversals in Geometry.
Popular Lessons.
Finding the Normal Line to a Curve  Definition   Equation.
How to Follow Up After an Interview.
Letter Writing Lesson Plan.
Thanksgiving Lesson Plan.
The Tell_Tale Heart Lesson Plan.
Washington State Science Standards for Grade 5.
FTCE Math 6_12  Passing Score.
Thesis Statement Lesson Plan.
FTCE Retake Policy.
HRCI Online Recertification   Continuing Education Credit.
How to Ace a Nursing Interview.
Constitutional Convention Lesson Plan.
College Courses Business English Foreign Language History Humanities Math Science Social Science See All College Courses.
High School Courses AP Common Core GED High School See All High School Courses.
Other Courses College   Career Guidance Courses College Placement Exams Entrance Exams General Test Prep K_8 Courses Skills Courses Teacher Certification Exams See All Other Courses.
Business.
English.
Foreign Language.
History.
Humanities.
Math.
Science.
Social Science.
See All College Courses.
AP.
Common Core.
GED.
High School.
See All High School Courses.
College   Career Guidance Courses.
College Placement Exams.
Entrance Exams.
General Test Prep.
K_8 Courses.
Skills Courses.
Teacher Certification Exams.
See All Other Courses.
Create a Study Trainer.
Create custom courses.
Get your questions answered.
Assign Lessons to Students.
Show Videos in Your Classroom.
K_12 Subjects Common Core Aligned.
Access to Instructors.
Create Custom Courses.
Unlimited access to all video lessons.
Lesson Transcripts.
Tech support.
Practice quizzes   tests.
Tools for tracking progress.
Personalized coaching.
Access to instructors.
Certificates of Completion.
Create Custom Courses.
Earn college credit.
Take two exams per month.
Finish official exams remotely.
Learn more.
Here are some of the most commonly_used functions, and their graphs.
Linear Function.
f  mx   b.
f   x.
f   x .
