linear.
quadratic.
power.
polynomial.
rational.
exponential.
logarithmic.
sinusoidal.
linear.
quadratic.
power.
polynomial.
rational.
exponential.
logarithmic.
sinusoidal.
Algebraic functions are functions that can be expressed as the solution of a polynomial equation with integer coefficients.
 Polynomials.
 Can be generated by addition, multiplication, and exponentiation alone.
 Constant function.
 polynomial of degree zero, graph is a horizontal straight line Linear function.
 First degree polynomial, graph is a straight line.
 Quadratic function.
 Second degree polynomial, graph is a parabola.
 Cubic function.
 Third degree polynomial.
 Quartic function.
 Fourth degree polynomial.
 Quintic function.
 Fifth degree polynomial.
 Sextic function.
 Sixth degree polynomial.
 Rational functions.
 A ratio of two polynomials.
 nth root Square root.
 Yields a number whose square is the given one.
 Cube root.
 Yields a number whose cube is the given one.
.
.
There are various types of algebraic functions.
The mathematical concept of a function expresses the intuitive idea that one quantity completely determines another quantity.
 An equation will be a function if for any x in the domain of the equation, there is exactly one value of y.
 More formally, a function is defined a type of relation which has only one output value with respect any permissible input value.
 The argument and the value may be real numbers, but they can also be elements from any given sets.
 the domain, the co_domain of the function and all the assigned values are in the Range of the function.
 It is important how we assign the values to each element of the domain.
 There may be different types of functions in mathematics.
 The classification of functions on the basis of properties may be as follows .
 Even Function Odd Function Monotonic Function Surjective Function Bijective Function Injective Function The functions can be classified into following on the basis of variables used .
 Algebraic Function Exponential Function Logarithmic Function Analytic Function Inverse Function Monotonic Function Polynomial Function Linear Function Quadratic Function Elliptic Function Identity Function Constant Function Power Function Vector_valued Function Integer_valued Function Periodic Function Piece_wise linear Function etc.
 In this article, we shall learn about few of the above mentioned types of functions.
A polynomial or algebraic function is a function which can be expressed in the following form.
  f  a_ n x  n    a_ n _ 1 x  n _ 1   .
   a_ 2 x  2    a_ 1 x  1    a_ 0  .
Here are some of the most commonly_used functions, and their graphs.
Linear Function.
f  mx   b.
f   x.
f   x .
Graphing Basic Functions 8 01.
Compounding Functions and Graphing Functions of Functions 7 47.
Understanding and Graphing the Inverse Function 7 31.
Polynomials Functions  Properties and Factoring 7 45.
Polynomials Functions  Exponentials and Simplifying 7 45.
Exponentials, Logarithms   the Natural Log 8 36.
Slopes and Tangents on a Graph 10 05.
Equation of a Line Using Point_Slope Formula 9 27.
Horizontal and Vertical Asymptotes 7 47.
Implicit Functions 4 30.
Graphs  Types, Examples   Functions 5 06.
3 10 Next Lesson Congruent in Math  Definition   Examples.
Finding Absolute Extrema  Practice Problems   Overview.
Vertical Asymptotes  Definition   Rules 4 29.
Go to Algebra II _ Graphing and Functions  Help and Review.
There are eight types of graphs that you will see more often than other types.
 Each has its own type of function that produces the graphs.
 They are easy to visually distinguish and by knowing how each looks, you can get an idea of what a graph might look like just by analyzing the function.
 The eight types are linear, power, quadratic, polynomial, rational, exponential, logarithmic, and sinusoidal.
Go to Algebra II _ Basic Arithmetic Review  Help and Review.
